Scaling Impact2021 Corporate Sustainability ReportContents

2 

CEO Statement

9 

Overview
About ADM
About the Report

3 
4 
4 
5  Where We Operate
8 

Awards and Memberships

38 

Integrity: Promoting Human Rights and 
Social Responsibility

39  Human Rights
40 
42 

Compliance and Ethics
Food Safety and Quality

Governance: Embedding Our Values in Our Operations 
and Supply Chain
Building a More Sustainable Value Chain
Sustainability Commitments and Policies
Sustainability Governance and Strategy
Risk and Opportunity Management
Key Topic Assessment and Stakeholder Engagement

10 
11 
12 
14 
15 
16  Goals, Targets and KPIs

43  People and Communities: Supporting Others at Home 

and Around the Globe
Introduction

44 
45  ADM Cares
46 
47  Nutrition and Wellness for All
49  Workplace Safety
49  Human Capital Management

SPOTLIGHT  Access to Water: Vietnam

1

20  Climate: Protecting the Planet Through Our Actions
21 
22 
24 
25 
26 
28 
29 
31 
36 

Introduction
Protecting Forests, Biodiversity and Communities
SPOTLIGHT  Parque Vida e Cerrado
Sustainable and Regenerative Agriculture
Responsible Pesticide Management
SPOTLIGHT  Golden Peanut Argentina
Environmental Footprint
SPOTLIGHT  Carbon Neutral U.S. Milling
Technology and Innovation

Verification Statement

52  Appendix
53 
55  GRI Content Index In Accordance
60 
61 

Related SASB Standards
TCFD Disclosures Index

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendix2

CEO Statement

We’re scaling up our 
work to live our purpose 
and power our continued 
growth and success.

Juan R. Luciano 
C H A I R M A N   A N D   C E O

Dear Stakeholders,

Last December, we unveiled the next phase of 
ADM’s strategy for growth and value creation. 
We call it “Sustainable Growth” – an important 
description of how sustainability drives our 
opportunities and simultaneously underscores 
our purpose and our culture.

For 120 years, ADM’s business has been deeply connected 
to the land and sustainable stewardship. The crops we turn 
into an unparalleled array of plant-based products have 
always depended on healthy soil, water and air. Today, 
sustainability is shaping our future in new ways. Thirty percent 
of global consumers say they will pay more for products 
with social responsibility claims – and ADM is the foundation 
of those products, from flavors from nature and lower 
carbon fuel sources, to alternative proteins and our growing 
BioSolutions platform.

But our focus on a sustainable future is broader than that. Our 
purpose is to unlock the power of nature to enrich the quality of 
life. And we cannot achieve that purpose without a strong and 
unrelenting focus on protecting our planet, our communities 
and our people. 

With an irreplaceable footprint that spans food, feed, 
agriculture and more, ADM is scaling up its sustainability 
leadership around the globe. When I look back at ADM’s 
accomplishments over the last year, and ahead at our plan 
and our future, I see a company that views sustainability as 
integral to all that we do, from our strategic planning, to our 
relationships with farmers, to how we meet customer needs 
every day.

We’re taking on the biggest challenges. In 2020, we 
announced our Strive 35 goals to reduce greenhouse gas 
emissions, water and energy intensity, and increase our landfill 
diversion rate. In the pages that follow, you’ll see how we’re 
making progress toward our key milestones with innovative new 
initiatives from heat recovery projects, to wider use of cleaner 
energy, to expanding our water reuse capabilities.

We’re expanding the universe of planet-friendly products. 
Customers and consumers today are looking for responsible 
production, clean labels, and partners and providers they 
trust align with their values. And last year, we showed how 
we’re meeting that demand. We were proud to announce 
the industry’s first carbon neutral wheat milling footprint. We 
advanced projects to widen the world of low-carbon, plant-
based fuels, including renewable diesel and sustainable aviation 
fuel. We moved forward with partnerships to capture and store 
carbon from some of our largest US facilities. We expanded our 
capacity to meet fast-growing global demand for alternative 
protein. And we continued to grow our BioSolutions portfolio of 
plant-based replacements for petroleum-derived products. 

We’re going to the root of the issue. Our value chain stretches 
from seed to fork, and we’re working with growers around 
the globe to enhance the sustainability and reduce the carbon 
emissions from their critical work. In 2021, we committed to 
a new, aggressive goal of eliminating deforestation from all 
of our supply chains – a goal we have accelerated even since 
our original announcement: We now are working toward a 
completely deforestation-free supply chain by 2025. We were 
also proud last year to unveil our new goal to reduce our 
Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions 25% by 2035 – a goal we’re 
aggressively working toward as we continue to expand the 
number of acres involved in our regenerative agriculture efforts. 

We also recently committed to work with the Science-based 
Targets initiative, with the goal of obtaining their approval of 
ADM’s climate targets and our alignment with ambitious global 
goals to limit rising temperatures to 1.5 degrees Celsius.

We’re building a better future. We’re continuing to scale 
up our global efforts. This year, we issued our first-ever 
sustainability bond, representing $750 million in capital to 
support efforts ranging from sustainable agriculture and energy 
efficiency to food security and socioeconomic empowerment. 
The bond exemplifies our broad approach to sustainability. 
Enriching the quality of life means supporting communities, 
such as through our work with the World Food Programme in 
Madagascar, or our support for veteran farmers. It’s about doing 
business the right way, as exemplified by our third consecutive 
recognition by Ethisphere as one of the World’s Most Ethical 
Companies. It’s about safety – always our highest priority, and 
even more so as we support and protect our 650 colleagues in 
Ukraine. And it’s about our work day in and day out to ensure 
the world’s nutritional needs are met.

Our future is bright. Our many achievements in 2021 are only 
the beginning. We’re scaling up our work to live our purpose 
and power our continued growth and success. This report 
shows who we are – and I’ve never been more inspired and 
committed to do even more.

Sincerely,

Juan R. Luciano
C H A IR M A N   A N D   C E O

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendix3

Overview

About ADM
About the Report

4 
4 
5  Where We Operate
8 

Awards and Memberships

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendix4

Overview

About ADM

About the Report

At ADM, we unlock the power of nature to enrich the quality 
of life. We’re a premier global human and animal nutrition 
company, delivering solutions today with an eye to the future. 
We’re blazing new trails in health and well-being as our scientists 
develop groundbreaking products to support healthier living. 
We’re a cutting-edge innovator leading the way to a new future 
of plant-based consumer and industrial solutions to replace 
petroleum-based products. We’re an unmatched agricultural 
supply chain manager and processor, providing food security 
by connecting local needs with global capabilities. And we’re a 
leader in sustainability, scaling across entire value chains to help 
decarbonize our industry and safeguard our planet. From the seed 
of the idea to the outcome of the solution, we give customers 
an edge in solving the nutritional and sustainability challenges of 
today and tomorrow. Learn more at www.adm.com.

We are committed to reporting on our Environmental, Social and 
Governance (ESG) activities on an annual basis. This report highlights 
our activities and progress toward addressing key ESG topics from 
January 1, 2021 to December 31, 2021, as well as a discussion of 
the opportunities and challenges in our journey to help create a 
more resilient and sustainable global food system. We have aligned 
our report with three key sustainability reporting standards: the 
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, the Task Force on 
Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), and the Sustainability 
Accounting Standards Board (SASB). The content indices for these 
standards are included at the end of the report.

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendixWhere We Operate

North America

Canada

6

6

8

4

United States

236

52

3

34

22 53

Mexico

1

1

10

5

Key
Ag Services & Oilseeds

Carbohydrate Solutions

Nutrition

  Procurement

  Processing

  Procurement

  Processing

  Procurement

  Processing

South America

Colombia

2

Ecuador

3

1

Peru

6

1

Brazil

41 20 14

Paraguay

14

1

Uruguay

12

Chile

4

Argentina

3

1

Dominican 
Republic

1

Puerto Rico

2

Costa Rica

1

Barbados

1

Trinidad and 
Tobago

1

Belize

1

Jamaica

1

Panama

1

Grenada

1

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendixWhere We Operate, continued

Key
Ag Services & Oilseeds

Carbohydrate Solutions

Nutrition

  Procurement

  Processing

  Procurement

  Processing

  Procurement

  Processing

APAC

Greater China

3

1

8

India

51

3

1

Vietnam

5

Africa

Morocco

1

Algeria

1

Nigeria

1

Madagascar

2

South Africa

2

Germany

3

12

5

Czech Republic

2

Poland

2

6

2

Korea

1

Philippines

2

Australia

1

Europe

Denmark

1

Netherlands

1

2

2

Belgium

2

1

United Kingdom

1

4

7

1

Ireland

3

France

1

13

Portugal

1

Spain

4

Serbia 

1

Italy

1

6

Ukraine

11

1

Romania

10

Bulgaria

1

Turkey

1

1

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendixAg Services & Oilseeds

Carbohydrate Solutions

Nutrition

Daily Grain Storage Capacity

Annual Crush Capacity

Annual Corn Grind

Annual Wheat Milling Capacity

Human Nutrition

20 MMT

41 MMT

24 MMT

7 MMT

7

NA
SA
EMEAI

15 MMT
4 MMT
2 MMT

414 Procurement & 
42 Owned & Leased 

Storage Facilities

Port Facilities

11,300 Owned 

Railcars

3 Owned Ocean-  

going Vessels

1,300 Owned 
1,800 Owned 

River Barges

Semi-Trailers

25 Countries with  

Procurement/  
Storage Locations

21 MMT
NA
8 MMT
SA
EMEAI 13 MMT

113 Processing 

Facilities

NA
EMEAI

22 MMT
2 MMT

6 MMT
Americas
International 1 MMT

16 Owned Corn 

Processing Plants*

42 Owned Wheat 

Processing Plants*

Innovation Centers

59 Customer 
51 Processing 
22 Procurement 

Facilities

Centers

54 Oilseed Crush 
~60 Different Products 

Facilities

Used in Food, 
Animal Feed, 
Renewable Fuels 
and Industrial 
Products

15 Countries with 

Processing 
Facilities

Corn Grind Capacity

Wheat Processing Capacity

~2.5M Bushels 

per Day

~980,000 Bushels 

per Day

Animal Nutrition

~90 Different 

Products

12 Countries with 
3 of 5 Largest Corn Mills 

Processing Plants

in the World

* Additional Joint Venture Facilities in Mexico, Hungary, Russia and U.S.

92 Processing  
110 Distribution  

Facilities

Centers

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendix8

Awards and Memberships

Awards

Memberships

At ADM, we’re proud to have been recognized with 
awards that demonstrate our commitment to doing 
business with integrity and responsibility.

We believe it is important to be involved in organizations that promote sustainability and ethical behavior, and 
are proud of our participation with the following organizations:

S&P Global 
Yearbook 
Member 2021

2
2
0
2

Supply Chain 
Excellence, 
2021 edie 
Sustainability 
Leaders Award 
Recipient

Big Innovation 
Award for Unique 
Probiotic Strain

Ethisphere 
Institute’s World’s 
Most Ethical 
Companies List 
(third year in 
a row)

•  Field to Market Collaboration of the Year Award
•  Fortune World’s Most Admired Companies List for 14 Consecutive Years
•  Fortune Change the World List
•  Fortune Blue Ribbon Companies List
•  Top Employer Europe 2022 
•  2021 Women’s Enterprise USA 100 Corporations of the Year List
•  NutraIngredients-Asia, Ingredient of the Year

Business Ethics 
Leadership 
Alliance (BELA)

Fields of Europe

Global Roundtable 
for Sustainable 
Beef

Round Table on 
Responsible Soy 
Association (RTRS)

Roundtable on 
Sustainable Palm 
Oil (RSPO)

Sustainable 
Agriculture 
Initiative Platform  
(SAI Platform)

World Business 
Council for 
Sustainable 
Development

International 
Sustainability 
and Carbon 
Certification (ISCC)

Suppliers Ethical 
Data Exchange 
(SEDEX)

Field to Market: 
The Alliance 
for Sustainable 
Agriculture

Cool Farm 
Alliance

For an extended list of organizations of which ADM is a member, please click here.

External Commitments

ADM is a signatory of several initiatives that promote ethical behavior and sustainability, including:

•  Signatory of the UN Global Compact
•  Signatory of ITC’s Trade for Sustainable Development Principles

•  Amazon Soy Moratorium
•  Sea Cargo Charter

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendix9

Governance

Embedding Our Values in  
Our Operations and Supply Chain

10 
11 

 Building a More Sustainable Value Chain
 Sustainability Commitments  
and Policies

12  Sustainability Governance and Strategy
 Risk and Opportunity Management
14 
 Key Topic Assessment and  
15 
Stakeholder Engagement
 Goals, Targets and KPIs

16 

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendixBuilding a More Sustainable Value Chain

We are the foundation of food on tables the world over – flavoring culture, forwarding health and wellness, and venturing into new 
possibilities and discoveries for human and animal nutrition. Creating value through the entire supply chain gives us the opportunity 
to help build a more sustainable food system.

10

1

Land
a.  Sustainable and 

Regenerative Agriculture

b.  Protect Biodiversity
c.  Eliminate Deforestation 

2

Grower Communities
a.  Smallholder Support
b. Women's Empowerment
c.  No Exploitation/Human Rights

3

Transportation
a.  Alternative Fuel Vehicles
b. SeaCharter for Ocean Freight
c.  U.S. EPA SmartWay Certification

4

Processing
a.  Environmental Footprint Reduction
b. Carbon Capture and Storage
c.  Process Innovation

Customer

7

6

5

Packaging
a.  Starch-enhanced Cardboard
b. Bioplastics

Product Portfolio
a.  Alternative Proteins
b. Responsibly Sourced Commodities
c.  Fuels of the Future

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendix 
11

Sustainability Commitments 
and Policies

Sustainability is an integral part of our business strategy. We 
strive to conduct our business in a responsible manner and reduce 
the environmental impact of our operations and supply chain to 
protect our planet, while focusing on the foundational role of food in 
supporting health and wellness.

ADM has set forth several key social and environmental commitments 
and policies that collectively outline our expectations for our 
colleagues, business partners and contractors, and our organization 
as a whole with respect to our sourcing operations. They establish 
clear standards that govern our approach to raw material sourcing, 
environmental stewardship and employee conduct, among other 
areas, and they state our positions on issues of widespread public 
interest. These standards were developed with input from our 
operations, law, compliance, environmental, and health and safety 
teams, and were approved by Chairman and CEO Juan Luciano. 

In 2021, we updated two of these policies to more clearly define our 
objectives and expectations: our Human Rights Policy and our Policy 
to Protect Forests, Biodiversity and Communities. We also issued a 
Managing Supplier Non-Compliance procedure which describes our 
approach to address non-compliances with these policies.

•  Policy to Protect Forests, 

Biodiversity and Communities

•  Statement on Animal Testing
•  Commitment to Anti-Corruption 

•  Code of Conduct
•  Environmental, Health & Safety 

(EHS) Policy

•  Human Rights Policy
•  Statement on Genetically 

Modified Organisms

Compliance

•  ADM Supplier Expectations
•  ADM Tax Policy
•  Managing Supplier 

Non-Compliance Procedure

We recognize the role engagement plays in preventing, addressing, 
and remedying concerns. For that reason, we engage with employees, 
communities, civil society and other stakeholders to address risks 
along our value chain. All allegations of potential non-compliances are 
investigated in accordance with our grievance and resolution protocol. To 
promote transparency, we maintain a grievance log on our website and 
post regular updates.

We invite all stakeholders who have concerns related to the 
implementation of our policies to email us at  responsibility@adm.com 
or use The ADM Way Helpline. Our Human Rights Policy protects 
human rights defenders, whistleblowers, complainants and 
community spokespersons from any form of retaliation.

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendix12

Sustainability Governance 
and Strategy

Our commitment to change and growth goes beyond our products 
and services. At ADM, sustainable practices and a focus on 
environmental responsibility are not separate from our primary 
business: they are integral to the work we do every day to serve 
customers and create value for shareholders. We are committed 
to being a force for change in developing innovative, sustainable 
solutions in agriculture, food and nutrition, energy, and packaging 
materials while pursuing ways to continually improve our efforts 
in both protecting the environment and enhancing environmental 
and social sustainability. That is why our current strategic plan is 
called “Sustainable Growth”.

Governance

Our sustainability efforts are overseen by our Board of Directors, in 
particular a dedicated Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility 
Committee, and led by our Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO), who 
is supported by regional sustainability teams.

The Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility Committee actively 
oversees our objectives, goals, strategies, and activities relating to 
sustainability and corporate responsibility matters and assists the 
Board in ensuring that we operate as a sustainable organization 
and responsible corporate citizen.

The Executive Council of ADM, our highest strategic and 
operational body, provides close supervision of our ESG efforts and 
an in-depth review of sustainability issues. Because we consider 
sustainability critical to our strategic planning and mergers and 
acquisitions efforts, the CSO reports to the Chief Strategy Officer 
and is an important part of the strategy team. Furthermore, 
regional sustainability teams, along with the corporate 
sustainability team, support the CSO to drive sustainability efforts 

in our facilities and supply chains around the world. Our sustainability efforts 
are also supported by the Centers of Excellence (CoE) that drive efficiency 
programs in their areas of focus such as the Utilities CoE, Diversity, Equity and 
Inclusion (DE&I) CoE, and Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) CoE.

Sustainability Governance Overview 

Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility 
Committee of the Board

•  Has direct oversight responsibility of objectives, goals, strategies, risks, 

and activities related to sustainability

Executive Council of ADM

•  Highest strategic and operational body

•  Provides close supervision of our ESG efforts and an in-depth review of 

sustainability issues

Vice President, Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO)

•  Leads ADM’s sustainability efforts

•  Reports metrics quarterly to ADM Board of Directors

•  Meets quarterly with ADM Board of Director’s Sustainability and 

Corporate Social Responsibility Committee

•  Reports regularly to ADM leadership

Regional and Corporate Sustainability Teams

•  Support business units to drive transformation and help create value 

across the supply chain

•  Support sustainability initiatives and implementation on the ground

•  Engage and interact with stakeholders

•  Located in North America, South America and EMEAI

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendixStrategy

We believe sustainability is critical to our future growth strategy. 
Our strategic plan of sustainable growth leverages the trends and 
technologies in sustainability to help us grow and create value for 
our stakeholders. Our Ag Services and Oilseeds business unit is 
focused on traceability of sourcing and differentiation and working 
with growers on low carbon agricultural products. Carbohydrate 
Solutions is focused on decarbonization as a business, and 
biosolutions and biomaterials, including fuel solutions from 
agricultural products to replace petroleum-based products. 
Nutrition is focused on developing alternative proteins that can 
reduce the amount of animal-based proteins that are sources of 
methane and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. The growth of 
these projects and businesses will be integral to supporting the 
objective of helping the planet limit total global warming to the 
1.5°C threshold indicated by the United Nations.

Moreover, we have a large industrial footprint and believe it 
is important to reduce GHG emissions related to our business 
activities and the entire agricultural supply chain. We aim to 
mitigate climate change through renewable product and process 
innovations, supply chain commitments, and a strategic approach 
to operational excellence with a focus on enhancing the efficiency 
of our production plants globally. We will continue to use internal 
and external resources to identify opportunities and take action 
to reduce our environmental footprint globally to meet our 
commitments and to mitigate the effects of climate change. 

At ADM, we believe a stronger workforce and community are 
the keys that drive our success and growth. Attracting the right 
talent is important to us, and we strive to create an environment 
that supports our employees’ safety, growth and contributions. 
Similarly, we aim to ensure the wellbeing of the communities 
where we operate. We assess the needs of communities 
individually and prioritize programs by directing funding to 
initiatives and organizations driving meaningful social, economic, 
and environmental progress.

ADM uses a multi-disciplinary, companywide enterprise risk 
management (ERM) process to assess sustainability risks 
including climate change and deforestation. Each quarter, the 
ERM Sustainability subgroup reviews and reports sustainability 
risks and the related mitigation actions with the ERM team. The 
group uses a risk matrix which includes a quantitative review 
of impact, mitigation, and residual risk as well as qualitative 
information about risk categories, warning periods, mitigation 
strategies and effectiveness.

13

To support the implementation of our 
sustainability strategy, we issued our 
first sustainable bond in February 2022. 
We intend to use the net proceeds from 
the offering to finance and/or refinance 
projects that meet certain criteria set 
forth in our Sustainable Financing 
Framework. Eligible projects will fall 
under one or more of the following 
categories: (i) green projects related to 
sustainable aquaculture and animal 
husbandry, sustainable agriculture, 
green buildings, energy efficiency, 
renewable energy, clean transportation, 
water and waste management, and 
pollution prevention and control; and (ii) 
social projects related to socioeconomic 
advancement and empowerment, 
and food security and sustainable 
food systems. 

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendix14

Risk and Opportunity Management

Scenario Analysis

In 2021, we began the process of conducting a Scenario Analysis following the TCFD guidelines. The analysis looked at the potential impact of three warming 
scenarios: 1.5°C (latest recommendation from Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) to prevent the worst effects of global warming), 2°C (aligned 
with the Paris Climate Accords), and 2.6°C (status quo). The first scenario assumes a rapid transition to a low carbon world in the next decade, limiting temperature 
increase to 1.5°C. This involves a high degree of transformation across the economy. Under this scenario, the worst anticipated physical impacts of climate change 
are avoided. The second scenario involves ambitious actions to mitigate climate change, limiting temperature increase to 2°C. This scenario requires greater policy 
action; however, there is still an increase in physical climate-related impacts. The third scenario is based on the current status quo with no changes to policies 
or actions and an anticipated increase in global temperature by 2.6°C resulting in increased physical impacts of climate change. ADM used these scenarios as 
written by the sources, except in the case of the third, status quo scenario, where transition risks were evaluated based on our existing Strive 35 commitments and 
implementation plan.

In each of the scenarios, we identified potential sourcing shifts and limitations, operational changes, physical impacts, and opportunities. The primary risks 
identified fall into two categories: physical risks and transition risks. Key opportunities are related to products and services offerings.

Transition Risks

Physical Risks

Opportunities

•  Emerging regulation and carbon pricing mechanisms could result in 

•  Increased severity and frequency of extreme weather events such 

increased operational costs in the short to medium term. 

•  Changes in policy or introduction of new policies could introduce 
additional tax requirements at our facilities. For example, in South 
America, introduction of the national legislation on biomass based 
power generation units, which requires additional certification and 
taxes, could limit our ability to operate our assets and increase our 
operating costs. 

•  Market demand has a direct effect on production, as well as demand 
for certified sustainable commodities. Changes in consumer demands 
could result in additional cost of implementation that may not be 
overcome by product sales. 

•  ADM uses coal-fired cogeneration technology to meet a portion of its 
energy demand. We are working to reduce the carbon footprint of our 
operations, but transitions can be time intensive and costly.

as cyclones, wildfires and floods could lead to increased direct costs 
from the disruption of supply chains and impair our ability to deliver 
products to customers in a timely manner.

•  Increased severity and frequency of extreme weather events such as 
cyclones, wildfires and floods could lead to increased sourcing costs 
due to limited availability of agricultural commodities and impact our 
ability to produce goods, which would directly affect sales and revenue. 

•  Increased calls for preserving and enhancing biodiversity by taking 
acres out of production—at a time when the world’s supply of raw 
materials is in great demand—may challenge ADM’s sourcing of raw 
materials. As the global population grows, and producers in many 
areas of the world must plant more to feed more people, a balance 
must be appropriately struck, or raw material shortages may result.

•  Developing enhanced transportation and warehousing scheduling, 
routing and tracking technologies can reduce carbon footprint and 
costs while improving customer delivery satisfaction. 

•  Development and expansion of low-emission goods and services 

could lead to increased revenues resulting from increased demand. 
As various renewable fuel standards are implemented around the 
world, we have an opportunity to capitalize on the increased demand 
through the production and sale of ethanol, biodiesel, and renewable 
green diesel. 

•  As more businesses and consumers look to renewable products, 
development of new products or services could lead to increased 
revenues through access to new and emerging markets.

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendix15

S
R
E
D
L
O
H
E
K
A
T
S
O
T
T
C
A
P
M

I

Key Topic Assessment and 
Stakeholder Engagement

Following the guidelines from the Global Reporting 
Initiative (GRI), we use a third-party to conduct a 
formal assessment to identify and prioritize our key 
sustainability topics that reflect our most significant 
impacts to the economy, environment, and people, 
including human rights. Because these impacts 
may change over time as our activities, business 
relationships, and assets evolve, we update this 
assessment on a regular basis.

In 2021, we engaged a reputable professional 
services firm to undertake a reassessment of key 
topics to guide our sustainability strategy, program 
implementation, and reporting efforts. The assessment 
team applied its knowledge of the GRI methodology 
and our industry to select an initial set of topics 
for discussion. During the engagement phase, 
stakeholders provided additional topics relevant to 
ADM either due to impact to the company or impact 
to stakeholders.

The firm selected stakeholders for engagement based 
on the selection criteria of responsibility, influence, 
proximity, dependency, and representation. Working 
with ADM, the firm interviewed, surveyed, and 
researched publicly available information from a 
variety of internal and external stakeholders, including 
ADM leadership, investors, customers, employees, and 
non-governmental organizations (NGOs).

The assessment indicated several key topics that are 
consistent across all stakeholder groups as critically 
important: “GHG Emissions,” “Deforestation & 
Conversion,” “Governance,” and “Water Management.” 
Although these are critical to manage, the other 
topics on the matrix are also important to ADM and 
our stakeholders.

Ongoing stakeholder engagement

We have established direct and easy-to-access channels 
for engagement with different types of stakeholders. 
These engagements provide valuable insights on 
stakeholder concerns and topics that they consider 
important. In 2021, we engaged with stakeholders via 
customer feedback, NGO inquiries and dialogue with 
shareholders. We also met with several customers and 
entered into partnerships on sustainable agriculture and 
environmental topics. In December, during our annual 
Global Investor Day, we highlighted our sustainable 
growth strategy and the importance of sustainability to 
our long-term planning. The presentation included a 
Q&A session for our investors.

GHG Emissions

Deforestation & Conversion

Climate Strategy

Sustainable & Regenerative Agriculture

Food Security & Affordable Nutrition

Human Rights & Labor Conditions

Energy management

Supply Chain Traceability

Biodiversity

Alternative Products & Green Chemistry

Water management

Food Safety & Quality

Occupational Health & Safety

Governance

Compliance & Ethics

Supply Chain Management

Technology & Innovation

Transparency

Diversity, Equity & Inclusion

Community Engagement
& Charitable Giving

Food Loss & Food Waste

Operational Waste

Smallholder Farms

Employee Wellbeing

Human Capital Management  

Tax Strategy

Product Disclosure 
& Labeling

Transportation

Environmental & Social Justice

Global Trade & Geopolitical Risk

Information & Cyber Security 

Core Business/Product

Economic

Environment

Labor

Social

IMPACT TO ADM

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendix 
 
Goals, Targets and KPIs

The United Nations Development Programme created the Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) as a universal call to action to end poverty, 
protect the planet and ensure that all people enjoy peace and prosperity. 
The 17 SDGs provide clear guidelines and targets for countries and 
governments, although industry still has a vital role to help achieve these 
goals. At ADM, we have undertaken a mapping exercise to determine 
which SDGs align with our business objectives and in turn, allow us to make 
the greatest contribution toward achievement. Specifically, we are focusing 
our efforts toward Zero Hunger, Clean Water and Sanitation, Decent Work 
and Economic Growth, Climate Action, and Life On Land. 

Below are highlights of some of our activities that support our commitment 
to these SDGs, as well as some of our other company goals.

Strive 35 Environmental Goals

KEY TOPIC

GOAL

16

New Commitments

In 2021, we announced our new commitment to 
be 100% deforestation-free by 2030 along with 
an updated policy to help us achieve that target. 
Throughout the year, we focused on traceability 
and are now excited to announce we have 
moved our target date to 2025. Last year, we also 
announced a new part of our Strive 35 goals – 
a 25% reduction of our Scope 3 GHG footprint 
by 2035.

ACCELERATED

NEW

100% 

deforestation-free by 2025 
(aim to eliminate deforestation 
from all of our supply chains 
by 2025)

25% 

reduction in Scope 3 GHG 
emissions by 2035

Learn more about ADM’s commitments and transparent reporting 
at www.adm.com/sustainability.

Emissions

Energy

Water

Waste

25% absolute reduction
in Scope 1 + 2 GHG emissions over 2019 baseline by 2035

PROGRESS

In progress
6.0% reduction

5-year Target

15-year Target

25% reduction
in Scope 3 GHG emissions over 2019 baseline by 2035
15% reduction 
in energy intensity over 2019 baseline by 2035

NEW

In progress
0% reduction

10% reduction
in water intensity over 2019 baseline by 2035

In progress
0% reduction

5-year Target

15-year Target

90% diverted
waste from landfill by 2035

5-year Target

15-year Target

In progress
83.8% diverted

5-year Target

15-year Target

TARGET DATE

12/31/2035

12/31/2035

12/31/2035

12/31/2035

12/31/2035

SDG/SASB ALIGNMENT

Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions

Energy Management

Water Management

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendix 
 
 
 
17

SDG/SASB ALIGNMENT

•  Environmental 

and Social Impacts 
of Ingredient 
Supply Chain

•  Ingredient Sourcing

Soy

KEY TOPIC

Traceability to  
Origin*

* 

For full explanation, see page 24.

GOAL

100% of Direct suppliers in Brazil

100% of Indirect suppliers in high-risk areas in Brazil

100% of Indirect suppliers in Brazil

100% of Direct and Indirect suppliers in Paraguay

100% of Direct and Indirect suppliers in Argentina

PROGRESS

Achieved

100% 

Achieved

100% 

Achieved

100% 

Achieved

100% 

Achieved

100% 

TARGET DATE

6/30/2021

12/31/2021

3/31/2022

12/31/2022

12/31/2022

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendix 
18

SDG/SASB ALIGNMENT

•  Environmental 

and Social Impacts 
of Ingredient 
Supply Chain

•  Ingredient Sourcing

Palm

KEY TOPIC

Traceability

Supplier 
Engagement*

Monitoring and 
Verification*

* 

For full explanation, see page 24.

GOAL

PROGRESS

Traceability to Mill: Improve traceability of palm oil (PO) 
and palm kernel oil (PKO) to mill to maintain high visibility 
into ADM’s palm supply chain and reduce deforestation risk

100% of volumes sourced from direct suppliers who have a 
publicly available NDPE policy in place

100% of volumes sourced from direct suppliers who have 
implemented a Grievance Management System

100% of volumes sourced from direct suppliers with an 
implementation plan for responsible sourcing of palm oil

100% of volumes sourced from direct suppliers with human 
rights due diligence process in place

In progress
Palm Oil

99.90% 

In progress
Palm Kernel Oil

98.60% 

In progress

99.75%

In progress

99.75%

In progress

97.46%

In progress

97.20%

TARGET DATE

Ongoing

Ongoing

12/31/2021

12/31/2021

12/31/2021

12/31/2021

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendix 
 
 
Sustainable Agriculture

KEY TOPIC

GOAL

Enroll wheat acres representing 10% of US wheat 
processing volume in sustainable ag projects

Sustainable Ag 
Projects

Operational and People Matters

KEY TOPIC

GOAL

Train 100% of employees on compliance, ethics and 
human rights

50% reduction in Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) 
from 2020 results

50% reduction in Lost Workday Incident Rate (LWIR) from 
2020 results

Achieve 50% gender parity among ADM’s senior 
leadership structure

Compliance Training

Workplace Safety*

Gender Parity Pledge

* 

Full safety reporting see page 48.

PROGRESS

In progress

5.2%

PROGRESS

In progress

99%

In progress

5.2%

In progress

0%

In progress

26%

19

TARGET DATE

12/31/2022

SDG/SASB ALIGNMENT

Ingredient Sourcing

SDG/SASB ALIGNMENT

Workforce Health 
& Safety

TARGET DATE

12/31/2021

12/31/2025

12/31/2025

12/31/2030

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendix 
 
 
20

Climate

Protecting the Planet Through Our Actions

Introduction
 Protecting Forests, Biodiversity and Communities
SPOTLIGHT  Parque Vida e Cerrado

21 
22 
24 
25  Sustainable and Regenerative Agriculture
26  Responsible Pesticide Management
28 
29  Environmental Footprint
31 
36  Technology and Innovation

SPOTLIGHT  Carbon Neutral U.S. Milling

SPOTLIGHT  Golden Peanut Argentina

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendix21

Introduction

We know that the health of our natural resources is critical to our 
future, and that our commitment to sustainable practices will result 
in a stronger ADM and a better world. 

We are committed to meeting our environmental obligations, while 
pursuing ways to continually improve our efforts in both protecting 
the environment and enhancing environmental sustainability.

At ADM, we have a robust Environmental Management System 
(EMS) aligned with ISO to manage our operations and facilities. We 
minimize our impacts to the environment by following different 

foundational procedures and ensure we meet our environmental 
obligations. We launched the company-wide EMS in 2012, and 
since then we have worked to continually improve and standardize 
the structure across all operations and align with other company 
initiatives such as Performance Excellence (PE) and Quality.

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendix22

Protecting Forests, 
Biodiversity and 
Communities

ADM is fully committed to ending deforestation, and to preserving 
biodiversity and water resources in our supply chains. This includes 
holding our suppliers accountable for producing commodities in ways 
that do not further deforestation in order to reduce impact on 
climate change. We believe that sustainable, ethical and responsible 
production by the food industry is an important part of curbing global 
warming, conserving native biodiversity, and upholding the rights of 
indigenous communities and smallholders. In 2021, we announced 
our aim to eliminate deforestation from all of our supply chains by 
2030, aligned with the United Nations’ New York Declaration. We 
have now announced an accelerated target date of 2025, which 
we will strive to meet through the following:

•  Increasing the geographical scope of our satellite monitoring in 

supply chains 

•  Integrating and automating purchase controls in higher risk regions 

•  Selecting suppliers based on deforestation-free scores and 

alignment with our policies

•  Increasing purchases of certified materials 

•  Continuing collaboration with industry peers and associations to 

develop standardized actions 

•  Further engagement with indirect suppliers

Though we are not a grower of crops, we work independently and 
with other stakeholders to ensure the crops we source globally follow 
a socially fair and environmentally sustainable standard that can 
contribute to the livelihood of the communities where they are grown 
and protect the environment we all share.

In 2021, we released our Policy to Protect Forests, Biodiversity and 
Communities, which covers the overarching commitments applicable 
to all of our supply chains, as well as specific commitments to address 
the complexities of the palm and soybean supply chains.

We work to implement programs across our supply chains to improve 
biodiversity and protect forests. Using a risk-based approach, ADM 
has focused initially on its palm and South American soy supply 
chains. Our efforts are organized into four categories: supply 
chain traceability, supplier engagement, monitoring & verification, 
and reporting.

At ADM, transparency is a core value. We publish regular updates 
to our grievances and resolutions log, documenting allegations of 
policy violations in our supply chains, as well as providing updates on 
investigations into each inquiry. 

We aim to eliminate 
all deforestation in 
our supply chain 
by 2025.

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendix23

43.1%

TRACEABLE TO PLANTATION

44.8%

Palm Oil

Palm
Kernel Oil

99.9%

TRACEABLE TO MILL

98.6%

Palm

Soy

Transparency and Traceability – We source palm products from 
13 direct suppliers coming from 22 refineries and 1,666 mills. We 
maintain high levels of traceability to the mill – over 99%  - and have 
been working to increase traceability back to the plantation of origin. 
We engage a third-party to verify our traceability data.

Supplier Engagement – We use the Palm Scorecard implemented 
by a third-party assessor to evaluate the performance of our direct 
palm suppliers. Our findings for 2021 show that we nearly reached 
our target to have 100% of our volumes from suppliers with a publicly 
available NDPE policy, a grievance management system, a responsible 
sourcing implementation plan, and a human rights due diligence 
process in place. The scorecard tool provides valuable insight of past 
performance data and provides us feedback on how to make better 
decisions in the future. We have identified the need to create an 
additional supplier assessment tool to enable proactive screening of 
suppliers prior to sourcing from them to ensure they align with our 
sustainability criteria and standards. 

Monitoring and Verification – ADM continues to participate as an 
active member in the No Deforestation, Peat or Exploitation (NDPE) 
Integrated Reporting Framework (IRF) Active Working Group to drive 
progress on reporting against NDPE criteria. ADM has engaged with 
all its direct suppliers on the provision of their respective NDPE IRF 
profiles. A total of 94.3% of volumes are covered under the reporting. 
In July 2021, we completed verification of each individual site profile 
by an independent third-party. We also report certified sustainable 
palm oil supplies using the volumes of PO and PKO certified by the 
Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). Certified supplies are 
driven by market demand.

Reporting – In 2021, we began to report the percentage of our 
sourced volumes that are delivering against the No Deforestation 
criteria defined by IRF. These profiles are reported alongside our 
supply chain traceability information on our website.

Transparency and Traceability – We have traceability for 100% 
of our direct and indirect soy suppliers in Argentina, Brazil and 
Paraguay. For direct suppliers, we map to the farm level using digital 
satellite mapping (polygons). This database enables measurement 
of Deforestation and Conversion Free (DCF) volumes, which in 2020 
equaled 97%. For indirect suppliers, we trace to the first aggregation 
point and then monitor a radius around that location for indications 
of deforestation. In areas with a high risk of conversion to soy, indirect 
parties will also be required to show compliance with the company’s 
policies on the volumes sold to ADM.

Supplier Engagement – We participate in several multi stakeholder 
initiatives worldwide that are leading the transformation of the soy 
supply chain. We participate in the Soft Commodities Forum (SCF) of 
the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) 
along with other industry/trading companies who share the same goals 
of eliminating deforestation and exploitation in their supply chains. 
Our objectives focus on defining common standards that will bring 
more transparency to the sector as a whole, and searching for financial 
incentives that will protect forested areas and promote the use of 
previously cleared land. We are engaging with our indirect suppliers in 
Brazil to identify and test digital tools that will enable verification of their 
supply with the Brazilian Forest Code and our corporate commitments. 
We also engage with growers through sustainable farming extension 
programs including Produzindo Certo, Sustentagil, and Soja Plus.

Monitoring and Verification – Since 2018, specialized firms with 
GIS technology (satellite imaging) have been cross -referencing 
planted within the farm polygons of our direct suppliers in high-risk 
areas to determine if the soy being sourced is compliant with local 
legislation and our No-Deforestation Policy. Farms are also verified 
to make sure there are no environmental issues (embargoed areas), 
encroachment into protected areas or Indigenous Territories, or labor 
issues which violate our policy.

Reporting – In addition to our corporate reports, as a participant in 
SCF of the WBCSD, we publish semi-annual reports along with other 
members to disclose progress toward agreed-upon regional objectives.

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendix24

T R A N S F O R M AT I O N   S P O T L I G H T

Parque Vida e Cerrado

Nature-based solutions (NbS) are defined by the International Union 
for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) as “actions to protect, sustainably 
manage and restore natural or modified ecosystems that address 
societal challenges effectively and adaptively, simultaneously 
providing human wellbeing and biodiversity benefits.” The IUCN has 
identified environmental degradation and biodiversity loss as a key 
societal challenge. 

Under Brazilian law, farmers are required to set aside a portion of 
their land for conservation. These protected areas of native vegetation 
provide critical habitat for wildlife and plant species, but they are often 
isolated pockets leading to genetic bottlenecking of plant and animal 
communities. Connecting these natural areas provides species a safe 
passageway to reach other breeding populations.

Recognizing the role agriculture can play in protecting biodiversity, 
we began working with Parque Vida e Cerrado in Brazil, a regional 
hub for the restoration of native vegetation, scientific ideation and 
biodiversity education. Together, we have developed a project aimed 
at restoring degraded areas along streams and springs in the Cerrado 
of western Bahia, promoting biodiversity corridors within soy farms 
and protecting community water resources. The project is providing 
sustainable agriculture education to growers and local schools, as well 
as creating local jobs that work on collecting native seeds, producing 
seedlings at the nursery, or giving technical assistance on restoration 
to farmers. Going forward, the project will conduct biodiversity 
assessments in Barreiras and Luís Eduardo Magalhães, two of the 
major soy producing municipalities in Brazil. Specialists will capture 
maned wolves and other large mammals to monitor them via radio 
collars and carry out a survey to evaluate the habits of these species 
found in forested set-asides within soy farms. The project plans to 
create environmental education projects in two local schools and 
carry out a campaign to educate the community about the project 
and the wolves.

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendix25

Sustainable and 
Regenerative Agriculture

We believe in taking action for climate change, integrating sustainable 
practices into every facet of our global operations in an effort to minimize 
our footprint worldwide. We recognize the opportunity we have to work 
together with growers in our supply chain to identify and implement 
farming practices that can reduce environmental impact, sequester 
carbon in the soil, and improve on-farm economics and labor conditions. 

Our sustainable and regenerative agriculture programs work to 
identify and implement customized and targeted projects focusing on 
outreach, education, and continuous improvement to drive adoption 
of practices. We have identified five key advanced agricultural practices 
that have multiple positive outcomes such as reducing GHG emissions, 
improving soil health, and protecting water quality. These practices 
include nutrient management, year-round soil coverage, minimized soil 
disturbance, integrated pest management, and diverse crop rotations. 

Our approach recognizes 
and accommodates the 
variances in commodities 
and geographies from 
which we source.

We represent a unique position in the supply chain – as an aggregator 
and processor of commodities, we can leverage the relationships we 
have with our customers, upstream and downstream, to implement 
sustainable agriculture programs. Our approach recognizes and 
accommodates the variances in commodities and geographies from 
which we source; not all practices are a good fit for every farm.

We leverage regional programs to offer growers in our supply chain 
solutions that work for their operations. In the U.S., we are members 
of Field to Market, and we have regenerative agriculture programs 
that work with growers to plant cover crops. In Brazil, we are working 
with Produzindo Certo to help growers identify best management 
practices for their farms.

We also participate in several certification and rating programs, 
including ADM Responsible Soy, 2BSvs, Round Table for Responsible 
Soy, International Sustainability and Carbon Certification, Roundtable 
on Sustainable Palm Oil, Sustainable Agriculture Initiative – Farm 
Sustainability Assessment, Red Tractor, Food Alliance, and Fair Trade.

Sustainable Agriculture Concepts 

 • Managing nutrients
 • Keeping soil covered
 • Minimizing soil disturbance
 • Increasing crop diversity

Integrated pest management

Positive Outcomes
•  Reduced GHG emissions
•  Improved resiliency
• 
•  Improved water quality

Increased farm proﬁtability

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendix 
26

Responsible Pesticide Management

We recognize that pesticide use in the agricultural sector has led 
to concerns regarding the potential for unintended environmental 
and health impacts. We also recognize that worldwide an estimated 
45% of crop production is lost to pests annually. While we do not 
own farms and can not mandate practices, we do strive to work 
with growers across our diverse global supply chains to support 
sustainable practices that substitute natural controls for some 
agrochemicals, foster ecosystem balance, reduce greenhouse gas 
emissions, and mitigate crop losses.

Grower Engagement

We work with growers around the world on implementing sustainable 
and regenerative agricultural practices, including integrated pest 
management (IPM) and cover crops. For example, in the U.S., we 
engage growers using the Field to Market metrics and framework. 
Four of the eight metrics are impacted by pesticide application: 
Water Quality, Biodiversity, Energy Use, and GHG Emissions. Through 
these programs, we connect growers with agronomy experts who can 
support the adoption of advanced agricultural practices such as cover 
crops and IPM. In Brazil, our ADM Responsible Soy program as well 
as the Doing It Right program both have IPM as a key component. 
Further, ADM is one of the sponsors of the Soja Plus Program, a 
program organized by the Brazilian Oil Industry Association and 
the Soy Farming Association, that provides training on farms, 
including training on the “conscious usage and correct handling 
of agrochemicals.”

Cover Crops 
Environmentally sustainable pest management starts with building 
healthy soils. Research has shown that crops grown on biologically 
active soils resist pests better than soils with low fertility, extreme 
pH, poor structure, and low biological activity. In addition to 
increasing soil health, specific cover crops can directly assist with 
pest management. For example, cover rye can control some diseases, 

weeds, and nematodes. Cover crops also provide valuable habitat and 
protection for predators that naturally control pest populations. They 
can act as a key prevention measure of an IPM plan. In a recent study, 
predatory insect populations were 7-10 times higher in cover cropped 
fields. These predators reduce the insect pest population, allowing for 
reduced pesticide application.

Integrated Pest Management
IPM is designed to reduce risks to human health and the environment 
from the use of pesticides. According to a study published in the 
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, IPM can reduce 
insecticide usage by 95% with no effect on yield. These programs 
use current, comprehensive information on relevant pest species, 
including their life cycles and interaction with the environment. 
Combined with available pest control methods, the information is 
used to design a plan to prevent and manage pest damage by the 
most economical means, with the least possible hazard to people, 
property, and the environment. IPM includes four steps:
•  Set Action Threshold - Growers first determine the threshold at 
which pest populations or environmental conditions indicate that 
control actions must be taken.

•  Monitor and Identify Pests - Many organisms are harmless, and 
may even be beneficial. Proper identification of and monitoring 
for pest species is critical to ensure pesticides are only used 
when needed.

•  Prevention - Methods to prevent pests such as rotating crops and 

selecting pest-resistant varieties.

•  Control - If action threshold indicates pest control is required, 

IPM plans outline control methods to balance effectiveness and 
risk. First, growers can use pheromones to disrupt pest life-cycles 
or mechanical control. If these methods fail, targeted spraying of 
weeds would be implemented. Broadcast spraying of non-specific 
pesticides is a last resort. 

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendix27

In 2021, we sourced volumes as follows:

(METRIC TONS)

COVER CROPS

IPM

ORGANIC

Wheat

Peanuts

Fruits, Flavors, Colors, etc.

Sunflower

Corn

Soybeans

Canola

Palm

Other Pulses

4,110 

25

21,760

7,080

7,780

156,630 

128,540

748,220

235,260 

3,935,450

3,400

4,524,090

233,610

190

Organic 

Certified organic foods are grown and processed according to strict 
regulatory standards, depending on local rules. For example, in the 
U.S., organic producers rely on natural substances and physical, 
mechanical, or biologically-based farming methods and are inspected 
annually to verify practices. In the E.U., organic regulations limit 
the use of artificial herbicides and pesticides and prohibit the use 
of ionizing radiation and genetically modified organisms. Organic 
growers adopt several approaches to maintain soil fertility and plant 
health including crop rotation, pest-resistant varieties, and natural 
pest control techniques such as IPM.

Sustainable, Certified and Organic 
Product Sourcing

We source sustainable, certified and organic commodities to meet 
customer demand and sustainable sourcing objectives. Several of 
these programs have components that specifically impact pesticide 
usage. Through Field to Market, we are incentivizing adoption of 
cover crops, in addition to other regenerative agriculture practices. 
The ADM Responsible Soy, Doing It Right, Food Alliance, ISCC, RSPO, 
and RTRS programs all require the development, implementation 
and monitoring of IPM plans. Organic farming prohibits the use of 
synthetic pesticides. 

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendix28

T R A N S F O R M AT I O N   S P O T L I G H T

Golden Peanut Argentina

Our Golden Peanut and Tree Nut colleagues in Argentina have been 
on the leading edge of sustainability for many years. They started 
their journey by implementing recycling programs and training onsite. 
That first step led to broader initiatives, including sending peanut 
hulls to a local utility to produce electricity, reducing waste to landfill 
and providing a renewable energy source. We have a biodiversity plan 
to protect native species, and since 2016, we have collaborated with 
local high schools to plant more than 800 native trees.

Working at the farm level and with smallholder growers, many 
advanced agricultural practices have been identified and 
implemented, including planting a winter cover crop to reduce soil 
erosion; using integrated pest management practices; and using 
technology solutions to identify high production potential fields and 
avoid those with flooding risks. These practices, among others, have 
enabled the successful completion of the Sustainable Agriculture 
Initiative (SAI) – Farm Sustainability Assessments resulting in SAI Gold 
ranking – the first and only peanuts in Argentina with this distinction. 

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendixEnvironmental Footprint

TOTAL EMISSIONS BY REG ION 
(metric tons)

North America
Latin America
and Caribbean
EMEAI

APAC
International
Air/Water

14.4 million

170,000

1.3 million

120,000
29,000

TOTAL EMISSIONS BY AC TIVITY
(metric tons)

GHG Emissions - Scope 1 + 2

Each year, we inventory and calculate Scope 1 (direct emissions from 
our equipment) and Scope 2 emissions (from the electricity and 
steam we buy from local utilities) globally for facilities under our 
operational control. With global operations, we select regionally-
appropriate factors from the International Energy Agency (IEA), 
United States Environmental Protection Agency (U.S. EPA), or 
The Climate Registry (TCR), unless the facility has Continuous 
Emissions Monitoring Systems which take precedent. Our assessment 
includes all six Kyoto protocol gases, plus additional refrigerants and 
is based on The Climate Registry, except where otherwise required by 
law, such as the U.S. EPA Part 98 Mandatory Reporting Rule. 

We have identified several projects to help us achieve our Strive 35 
reduction targets, some of which are highlighted below:

•  Renewable Energy Procurement: In Brazil, we have signed a 

15-year agreement to purchase 31.9 MWh of energy from a wind 
power plant that will reduce our carbon emissions by 19,000 metric 
tons per year.

•  Transportation Fleet Upgrades: As a U.S. EPA SmartWay Certified 
carrier, our trucking fleet is implementing several fuel economy 
improvements, including upgrading to vehicles with automatic 
transmissions that use adaptive cruise control and governed speed 
to optimize fuel economy as well as swapping out dual tires for 
super single/wide base tires. The lighter weight and reduced rolling 
resistance increases fuel efficiency. In addition, we blend our own 
fuel with ADM-produced biodiesel allowing our fleet to run on a 
20-30% biodiesel blend rather than the standard 5% blend available 
at commercial fuel stations. We are continuing with our trials of 
compressed natural gas and 100% biodiesel fueled trucks with 
positive initial results.

29

/6.0%
Reduction

2019
Total

2021
Total

16.6M 15.6M

19

Scope 2
2.8M

Scope 2
2.3M

Scope 1
14.3M

Scope 1
13.7M

TA RGE T
GHG Emissions 
25%

Absolute reduction 
in Scope 1 + 2 GHG emissions over 
2019 baseline by 2035

BIOG ENIC CO 2 
(in millions)

4.9

2019
(baseline)

4.0

2021

CARBON PERMANENTLY SEQUESTERED
(in thousands)

520

Stationary
Combustion
Mobile Combustion 640,000

12.9 million

Fugitive Emissions 60,000
Process Emissions 11,000

Purchased Energy 2.3 million

2019
(baseline)

444

2021

0

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendix30

•  Coal Conversion: At our Mankato, Minnesota; Des Moines, Iowa; 

and Lincoln, Nebraska oilseeds facilities, we have started conversion 
projects to replace existing coal-fired boilers with high pressure, 
natural-gas-fired boilers which allow efficient cogeneration of steam 
and power using a lower carbon fuel. This project is estimated to 
reduce our Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions by over 150,000 
metric tons per year, and the upgrades will also allow us to pivot to 
other lower carbon fuels such as renewable natural gas or hydrogen 
when they become commercially available.

•  NET Power: We are exploring efforts to purchase energy from a 

planned NET Power cogeneration facility to be built adjacent to our 
processing complex in Decatur, Illinois. This cutting-edge technology 
uses a semi-closed loop technology that combusts natural gas with 
oxygen instead of ambient air to produce low or zero-emission 
power. Oxy-combustion results in a more pure CO2 exhaust stream 
that is recycled through the system to drive turbines instead of 
steam. After being recycled through the unit, the CO2 will be 
captured and sequestered in our onsite sequestration well. Through 
this project, we expect to reduce our annual GHG emissions by 1.5 
million metric tons.

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendix31

T R A N S F O R M AT I O N   S P O T L I G H T

Carbon Neutral U.S. Milling

In 2021, we achieved net carbon neutral status for our U.S. flour 
milling operations. This accomplishment is an industry first of its 
kind and scale. We have 22 mills around the U.S. that process wheat, 
sorghum and corn into flour.

We achieved net carbon neutral status through a combination of 
energy efficiencies, purchase of renewable energy certificates, and 
sequestration of carbon dioxide at our commercial carbon capture 
and storage facility. 

Around the world, we have been working to reduce the 
environmental footprint of our operations. At U.S. flour mills, our 
initiatives included energy efficiency projects, technology updates, 
and the replacement of older facilities with new state-of-the-art mills. 
Further, we lowered the carbon footprint of our U.S. flour milling 
network through the purchase of renewable energy certificates which 
represents electricity generation from renewable sources, such as 
solar, wind or hydro. Lastly, we are using carbon capture and storage 
technology to compensate for emissions generated at the flour mills, 
a unique way we have been able to achieve net carbon neutral status.

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendix32

GHG Emissions - Scope 3

We have announced a new commitment to reduce our Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions across our supply chain by 25% by 2035 
against a 2019 baseline. We are focusing our reduction efforts on five material categories: purchased goods and services, fuel and 
energy related emissions, upstream transportation and distribution, waste, and the processing of sold products/goods. This target 
builds on our ambitious Strive 35 sustainability goals. 

To achieve our Scope 3 reduction goal, we will continue to work in close collaboration with farming communities, suppliers and 
customers. We are working with partners in the industry to implement projects that focus on supporting growers in adopting 
practices that address water quality and soil health, such as cover crops, reduced tillage, complex crop rotations, and nutrient 
management to reduce soil erosion, nutrient run-off, and greenhouse gas emissions. We also recognize the importance of 
protecting forests and watersheds as critical carbon sinks. Ensuring we only source deforestation-free commodities in our supply 
chains will reduce land use change emissions.

Our transportation business unit has been working to reduce upstream transportation emissions by contracting with U.S. EPA 
SmartWay Certified shipping companies. We are also assessing emissions from ocean freight through our membership in the 
Sea Cargo Charter which, aligned with the ambitions of the International Maritime Organization, aims to reduce shipping’s GHG 
emissions by at least 50% by 2050.

SCOPE 3 GHG EMISSIONS BY CATEGORY

Scope 3 emissions

66,800,000

metric tons

For the categories calculated, our scope 3 emissions in 2021
were 66,800,000 metric tons.







Category 1: Purchased Goods and Services, 52.5%

Category 3: Fuel-and-Energy-Related Emissions, 2.8%

Category 4: Upstream Transporta�on, 5.4%

Category 5: Waste Generated in Opera�ons, 0.3%

Category 10: Processing of Sold Goods, 38.9%

TA RGE T
GHG 
Emissions 
25%

Reduction 
in Scope 3 GHG 
emissions over 
2019 baseline 
by 2035

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendix33

Energy

We continue to identify, assess, and implement innovative ideas 
that reduce our energy intensity, allowing us to produce more while 
using less energy. In 2020, we announced our goal to reduce energy 
intensity per ton of product by 15% by 2035 over a 2019 baseline, 
as a part of our Strive 35 goals. To ensure we are on track to meet 
our goals, we set a 5-year interim target to reduce energy intensity 
6% by 2025. 

Our facilities have implemented an energy management program 
based on ISO 50001, with 16 facilities ISO certified. In 2021, we began 
the process to certify another ADM facility, which will increase the 
total number certified production facilities to 17.

We calculate energy consumption for all facilities under our 
operational control using a combination of utility bills, operations 
data tracking systems, and fuel purchase records, which consists of: 

•  Renewable fuel consumption (biofuels such as wood and biogas 

burned onsite).

•  Non-renewable fuel consumption (fossil fuels burned onsite).

•  Electricity consumption (purchased from utilities 

or power providers).

•  Steam consumption (purchased from utilities or other 

off-site providers).

The fuels burned onsite are used to generate steam and heat, as 
well as electricity at locations with cogeneration facilities. To ensure 
proper accounting, any electricity produced by our cogeneration 
facilities that gets sold to the grid is subtracted from our total 
energy consumption.

In 2021, we implemented over 75 energy-saving projects across our 
business units. These projects are expected to reduce more than 
175,000 MWh of energy while achieving an annual cost savings of 
$4.4 million. We also continued our global Energy Treasure Hunt 
Program through which we were able to identify additional energy 
reduction opportunities of around 177,000 MWh annually. Some 
examples include:

•  Heat Recovery Studies – We completed heat recovery studies on 
several of our boilers and cogeneration facilities which identified 

significant energy savings, while simultaneously increasing 
reliability. We implemented suggested improvements at our 
facilities in Cedar Rapids, Iowa; Gomez Palacio, Mexico; Kershaw, 
South Carolina; and Hamburg and Straubing, Germany. Collectively, 
these improvements are expected to result in annual energy 
savings of over 57,000 MWh.

•  Waste Heat Optimization – At our facilities in Decatur, Illinois; 
Bazancourt, France; Adana, Turkey; and Des Moines, Iowa, we 
have improved waste heat recovery by optimizing energy usage, 
eliminating waste, and adding new heat recovery loops. These 
projects are expected to save over 45,700 MWh of energy annually.

•  Compressed Air System Improvements – We conducted 10 
system audits and 11 leak surveys, repurposed idle equipment, 
and replaced inefficient equipment in our compressed air systems 
at facilities in the U.S., U.K., and Germany. These repairs and 
adjustments are expected to result in around 6,000 MWh of annual 
energy savings.

ENERGY CONSUMPTION BREAKD OWN 
(MWh)

ENERGY INTENSITY
(MWh/ton of product produced)

TARGET
Energy Intensity 
15%

Reduction in energy intensity 
per ton of product produced 
by 2035 over a 2019 baseline

Renewable Fuel

4.0 million MWh

Non-renewable Fuel

49.0 million MWh

Purchased Electricity

4.8 million MWh

Steam Consumption

389,000 MWh

Electricity Sold

255,000 MWh

1.2

0.9

0.6

0.3

0.0

1.07

1.09

-1.8%

Increase

Total

57.9 million MWh

2019 (baseline)

2020

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendix34

Water and Wastewater

With global water resources becoming increasingly scarce, the water 
crisis has become a pressing issue. The availability of water is vital 
for our operations, which is why we have factored it into our risk 
management framework and developed programs to respond to 
current and potential future water shortages. 

In 2020, we announced our target to reduce water intensity by 
10% per ton of product produced at our largest sites by 2035 over 
a 2019 baseline. To ensure we are on track to achieve this goal, 
we have set a 5-year interim target of a 5% reduction by 2025. In 
addition, to support the health and wellbeing of the communities 
where we operate, we are developing a global improvement strategy 
in priority watersheds by 2025.

With the help of a professional service firm, we are developing our 
Strive 35 Water Scarcity Program. In 2021, we completed the first 
phase of this effort, addressing the program’s strategic objectives, 
and we are continuing our efforts in defining the operational and 
institutional practices for the program.

Our water use reduction efforts are focused on 45 of our largest sites, 
which collectively account for more than 95% of our global water usage. 
We refer to these sites as our Major Water Users Group (MWUG), and 
we measure water usage at these sites using a combination of flow 
meters and utility bills. We exclude once-through cooling water from our 
withdrawal numbers because we return the water to its original location 
with only a change in temperature. Although we reuse and recycle 
water through various processes such as cooling tower recirculating, for 
calculation purposes we only include the water reused after it has been 
processed in our onsite wastewater treatment facility. 

To reduce the use of fresh water, we practice the three Rs: reduce, 
reuse, and reclaim. Our sites have adopted best management 
practices for minimizing water use and maximizing its reuse before 

disposal. Further, we have advanced a number of reclaim operations 
where wastewater is further treated and returned for use within our 
facilities. Across our MWUG locations, we are regularly investigating 
new technologies that could increase water reuse and reclaim 
opportunities and further reduce our fresh water intake.

In 2021, our water intensity number increased due to lower 
production rates and increased water usage. We are renewing our 
focus and looking forward to additional projects we have planned to 
help us achieve our Strive 35 goal.

•  Expansion of Decatur Water Reuse Program – We made 

significant improvements in the Decatur water reuse system and 
now have the capacity to supply over 22,700 m3 of reuse water 
per day to our cooling tower operations around the campus. This 
expansion project will enable us to reduce our fresh water intake by 
3.45 million m3 annually in Decatur alone.

•  Evaporative Capture Technology Pilot – One of the largest 

sources of water usage and loss takes place in ADM’s recirculating 
cooling towers. We are piloting an innovative technology that can 
capture the evaporative loss and return it to the cooling tower 
operation, reducing the need for fresh make-up water.

W AT E R   W I T H D R A W A L   B Y   S O U R C E
(cubic meters)

Ground 

41.8 million

Municipal 

39.4 million

Surface 

33.6 million

W AT E R   I N T E N S I T Y
(m3/ton of product produced)

2.4

1.8

1.2

0.6

0.0

2.32

2.48

-6.5%

Increase

2019 (baseline)

2021

TARGET
Water Reduction
10%

Reduction in water usage per ton of 
product produced at our largest sites by 
2035 over a 2019 baseline

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendix35

Operational Waste

In 2020, we launched our Strive 35 waste diversion goal, establishing 
a commitment to beneficially reuse, recycle or otherwise divert from 
landfill at least 90% of our waste by 2035. To achieve our goal, in 
2021 we engaged a third-party waste management vendor in North 
America, tapping into an extensive network of beneficial use and 
recycling outlets. Our operations in Europe and South America are 
currently piloting similar programs. 

Last year, we improved our landfill diversion rate to 83.8%. Some 
examples of landfill diversion projects include:

•  As an alternative to coal, our facility in Cebu, Philippines began 

using wood briquettes to fuel its steam boilers, creating a 
high-phosphorous ash suitable for land application by local 
farmers, reducing both greenhouse gas emissions and waste to 
landfill. The site is now diverting approximately 200 metric tons of 
waste annually.

•  Our corn wet mill in Cedar Rapids, Iowa began shipping previously 
landfilled biomass from its wastewater treatment operations to 
a local farmer to help return nutrients to agricultural fields. Each 
month, the site averages four loads of wastewater treatment 
biomass sent for beneficial reuse, diverting approximately 
1,200 metric tons per year of wastewater treatment biomass 
from landfill.

•  Our animal nutrition facility in Morelos, Mexico implemented a 

L A N D F I L L   D I V E R S I O N

source separation awareness campaign with its cleaning staff and 
plant colleagues to promote recycling. To support the campaign, 
the facility’s waste vendor provided an extra container that remains 
onsite to facilitate further separation of recyclables from waste 
destined for landfill. The newly implemented program has helped 
improve the site’s landfill diversion rate from 75% in 2020 to 88% 
in 2021.

Landﬁll

16.2%

Landﬁll Diversion 83.8%

TARGET
Waste Management

Aim to beneficially reuse, recycle or 
otherwise divert from landfill at least 

90% of our waste

WASTE DIVERSION FROM LANDFILL

0.90
0.85
0.80
0.75
0.70
0.65
0.60
0.55
0.50

83.8%

81.2%

-2.6%

Increase

2019 (baseline) 

2021

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendix36

Technology and Innovation

Our eyes are always toward the future – to new ways, new formulas, new 
flavors and new possibilities. We’re at our best when we’re on the cusp. 
And we thrive as partners, co-creators and instigators, using technical 
ingenuity to spark game-changing ideas and groundbreaking solutions.

Fuels of the Future

Demand for sustainable aviation fuel (SAF) is expected to increase as 
major U.S. airlines, airports, shippers and the U.S. government have 
agreed to work together to advance the use of cleaner sustainable 
fuels. The U.S. and the EU have set goals that together would support 
almost 4 billion gallons of annual SAF production by 2030, and more 
than 45 billion by 2050.

In October 2021, ADM and Gevo, Inc., a pioneer in transforming 
renewable energy into low carbon, energy-dense liquid hydrocarbons, 
announced that they have signed a memorandum of understanding 
(MoU) to support the production of SAF and other low 
carbon-footprint hydrocarbon fuels.

Our Columbus, Nebraska and Cedar Rapids, Iowa dry mills as well as 
ethanol from our Decatur, Illinois operations could transition from fuel 
ethanol to serve growing demand for lower-carbon aviation fuel. The 
MoU contemplates the production of both ethanol and isobutanol 
that could then be transformed into renewable, low carbon-footprint 
hydrocarbons, including SAF, using Gevo’s processing technology 
and capabilities. About 900 million gallons of ethanol produced at 
these three locations could be processed utilizing this technology, 
resulting in approximately 500 million gallons of SAF and other 
renewable hydrocarbons. 

The companies intend to work together to determine full 
commercialization plans and enter into definitive agreements 
enabling a timeline such that production of SAF can begin in the 
2025-2026 timeframe.

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendixBio-based Fertilizer Additive

A rising global population and shrinking arable land are increasing 
pressure on improving agricultural output and achieving “more from 
less”. Add in increasingly extreme climatic events and a tightening 
regulatory landscape, and the magnitude of the problem becomes 
quite clear. 

Bio-based ingredients can play a pivotal role in helping the industry 
rise to these challenges. With global pressure mounting against the 
use of pesticides and biocides, using more natural and plant-based 
ingredients are an effective alternative. These components deliver the 
same functional benefits while helping to reduce the carbon footprint 
of the agriculture industry. 

ADM CS43 is a next-generation bio-based crop input that improves 
corn yields. It is formulated to boost the natural power of beneficial 
soil microbes. By stimulating microbial activity, it increases nutrient 
use efficiency, enhances plant vigor and boosts yields. 

This cutting-edge crop input provides the energy source needed 
by soil microbes to boost their activity, resulting in greater nutrient 
availability. In addition, years of research have shown it can increase 
corn yields by seven bushels per acre when used in combination with 
starter fertilizer.

Leveraging CCS as a Transition Pathway

As we look to a low carbon future, we are mindful of the role 
technology can play in the transition. Our carbon capture and 
sequestration facility in Decatur, Illinois has allowed us to safely and 
permanently store more than 3.5 million metric tons of CO2 a mile 

37

SUPPORTING A LOW-C ARBON FUTURE

Drinking Water 
Resources

CO2 Injection Well 
and Monitoring

Secondary Containment Zones 

and a half under the surface of the earth. We recently signed a Letter 
of Intent with Wolf Carbon Solutions US LLC to enable additional 
decarbonization via the construction of a pipeline – developed, 
owned and operated by Wolf Carbon Solutions – which, together with 
a commercial agreement, will allow for the capture, compression and 
transportation of carbon dioxide produced at our Clinton and Cedar 
Rapids, Iowa, facilities.

Designed as the backbone infrastructure needed to support the 
region’s lower carbon transition, the 350-mile steel trunk line will be 
capable of transporting 12 million tons of CO2 per year. The pipeline 
will offer dedicated capacity to transport CO2 from our facilities in 
Clinton and Cedar Rapids to be stored permanently underground at 
our sequestration site in Decatur, Illinois. The pipeline would have 
significant spare capacity to serve other third-party customers looking 
to decarbonize across the Midwest and Ohio River Valley.

Over the past decade, 
we have safely and 
permanently sequestered 
more than 3.5 million 
metric tons of CO2.

Cap Rock Zone

CO2 Storage

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendix38

Integrity

Promoting Human Rights and 
Social Responsibility

39  Human Rights
40  Compliance and Ethics
42  Food Safety and Quality

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendix39

Human Rights

At ADM, we are committed to doing business with integrity. 
We believe in paving the way with good business practices, 
progressive solutions and mindful actions that make a 
positive impact. 

We actively work to protect human rights in our operations and 
supply chains, taking corporate actions that make a measurable, 
sustainable difference for communities and ecosystems around the 
world. While governments have the primary duty to protect and 
ensure the fulfillment of human rights, we have a role to play in 
protecting human rights in our operations, our supply chains and the 
communities where we operate. We have the opportunity to enact 
change globally, and our 2021 efforts demonstrate our commitment 
to protect human rights throughout our supply chain. 

Our updated Human Rights Policy reflects our commitment to embed 
human rights protections in all aspects of our global operations. The 
new version of our policy aligns with the United Nations Guiding 
Principles on Business and Human Rights. It emphasizes the creation 
of a robust human rights due diligence process, mitigation of risks 
and access to remedy. 

The mitigation and prevention of human rights risks in our supply 
chains are at the core of our risk assessment strategy. In 2021, we 
began developing a standard operating procedure to formalize our 
human rights due diligence program. The procedure will define 
a consistent risk ranking methodology, mitigation strategies, and 
action plans. Leveraging third-party tools such as Elevate EiQ and 
Sedex Radar, as well as frameworks like the United Nations Human 
Development Index, we will identify the highest-risk geographies 

and commodities in our supply chain. As we continue to develop this 
framework, mitigating human rights risks will be at the forefront; 
working with our suppliers to assess and address risk increases 
transparency and enables collaboration to protect human rights 
throughout our supply chain.

Our human rights policy applies to our employees and facilities as 
well as our suppliers. To demonstrate compliance, we host Sedex 
responsible sourcing audits at our facilities around the globe. These 
audits allow us to track key risk indicators. At the ADM facilities visited 
in 2021, there were no fees charged to job-seekers in exchange for 
employment, and no collateral was taken in the form of money, 
identification or other personal belongings without workers’ consent 
as a condition of employment by ADM or contracted companies. No 
human trafficking was observed. ADM sustainability, legal, operations, 
and compliance teams work with the locations to identify and 
implement corrective actions. In 2021, ADM conducted 35 Sedex 
audits across all three business units and in eight countries.

Working to assess and 
address risk enables 
collaboration to protect 
the wellbeing of people 
and communities 
throughout our global 
supply chain.

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendix40

Compliance and Ethics

At ADM, we believe in leading by example, setting a global standard 
for “good business” that other companies in our industry will follow. 

In March 2022, we were recognized by Ethisphere, a global leader 
in advancing the standards of ethical business practices, as one 
of the 2022 World’s Most Ethical Companies™, marking the third 
consecutive year we have received this recognition.

We maintain high ethical standards across our global workforce. 
We expect employees to take responsibility for their actions and 
adhere to our values of honesty and integrity, consistent with our 
commitment to always conduct business fairly and ethically.

Our Code of Conduct guides us on how to make sound decisions and 
illustrates proper actions for conducting our businesses. Our Code 
promotes a shared understanding of what achieving the right results 
the right way means. By knowing and following our Code, each of 
us does our part to maintain and further build trust with our various 
stakeholders—including our colleagues, customers, business partners, 
shareholders and communities.

We prohibit all forms of corruption, including bribery, and we abide 
by all anti-corruption laws in every country we do business. We 
have a robust anti-corruption program that includes a global Anti-
Corruption Policy and other compliance procedures and controls 
designed to minimize the potential for corruption in ADM’s global 
business dealings, such as enhanced due diligence, screening, 
monitoring of high risk third parties, and pre-approvals before hosting 
or entertaining government officials. We train employees and third 
parties to raise awareness of corruption risks and applicable anti-
corruption laws in order to both avoid inadvertent violations of the 

law and enable early recognition and handling of potential issues. Our 
Anti-Corruption Policy is updated periodically to address new risks 
and incorporate continuous enhancements, including an updated 
version of the policy which was published in 2021.

We have a strong “Speak Up” culture at ADM, which helps us handle 
issues and address problems in a timely manner, building trust 
with one another and with our customers, suppliers and business 
partners and protecting the company from legal, financial and 
reputational risks. We encourage employees to voice concerns or ask 
questions through multiple channels, including by talking with their 
supervisors, Human Resources, or Compliance, or at any time through 
additional reporting channels such as The ADM Way Helpline, which 
is available by phone or web in more than 30 languages. We also 
added a QR Code in 2021 to further enhance accessibility to our 
Helpline. Reporting via the Helpline can be done anonymously, where 
permitted by law. We do not tolerate any form of retaliation for 
making a good-faith report of actual or potential misconduct. The 
ADM Way Helpline may also be used by stakeholders outside of ADM 
to raise questions or voice concerns.

Our helpline is available 
by phone or web in more 
than 30 languages.

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendix41

We feel a deep and genuine regard for the safety and wellbeing 
of all people, communities and resources, and we treat them with 
care and consideration. We demonstrate trust and openness. And 
we are good stewards of the environment. Our Human Rights Policy 
protects human rights defenders, whistleblowers, complainants and 
community spokespersons from any form of retaliation.

In 2021, we received a total of 1077 reports, concerning topics 
such as employee relations, environmental, health and safety (EHS), 
diversity, equal opportunity and respect in the workplace, and misuse 
or misappropriation of assets or information. We log and track all 
reports we receive. Each is classified by type and then assigned to 
an investigator to conduct an independent and objective review into 
the concerns raised. If an allegation is substantiated, we implement 
corrective and disciplinary actions which can include coaching and 
counseling, process or control improvement, verbal or written 
warnings, financial penalties, or termination.

Training is a key component of our compliance program. In 2021, 
employees completed required training on topics such as business 
integrity, antitrust and competition law, insider trading and human 
trafficking. Above and beyond our global annual required training, 
Compliance also led dozens of trainings sessions for targeted 
employee populations.

We published over 80 global and regional compliance 
communications in 2021 to improve employee understanding 
of ethics and compliance expectations, enhance awareness of 
compliance risks, provide guidance on courses of action, and increase 
transparency into how ADM investigates and remediates issues of 
concern. The communications covered topics such as anti-corruption, 
data privacy and records retention, conflicts of interest, trade 
sanctions, speaking up, and more. We also launched the Compliance 

Compass, which is an internal bi-monthly awareness campaign that 
features case studies highlighting real-world, anonymized compliance 
and ethics challenges faced by ADM colleagues. 

We conducted eight virtual Vendor Compliance sessions to manage 
risk related to our third-party relationships around the world. In 
these sessions, regional business leaders and compliance personnel 
provided training and engaged in rich discussions with approximately 
300 vendors, joint venture partners, customers and other business 
partners on topics such as anti-corruption, conflicts of interest, 
accurate books and records, supplier expectations, human rights, 
privacy, security, and sustainability. And consistent with our 
commitment to ongoing compliance monitoring of third-party service 
providers acting on our behalf, in 2021 we conducted 16 compliance 
audits of third-party intermediaries around the world.

2021  HELPLINE 
CONTAC T METHODS

2021 COMPLIANCE-LED 
TRAININGS

82

Number of training sessions

16

Number of countries where training 
was conducted

2,633

Number of employees trained

Website
Phone
Email

46%

39%
15%

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendix42

Food Safety and Quality 

We believe food is fundamental to quality of life, and expanding access 
to nutrition is a fundamental piece of how we fulfill our brand promise. 
And the safety and security of our world’s food and feed supply chain 
is of critical importance. That’s why at ADM, we continually review 
and improve our food safety systems and procedures, including 
good manufacturing practices for human and animal food and the 
development and implementation of risk-based preventive controls 
or critical control points for human food based on hazard analysis. 
Our facilities, processes and procedures undergo regular evaluation to 
assess the risk of product contamination, and we implement a variety 
of safeguards and security concepts to reduce those risks. 

We’ve built our Food Safety and Quality program around three pillars: 
achieving best in class food safety, maintaining a culture of quality, 
and leveraging innovation and technology.

Best in Class Food Safety

Utilizing our customized “Integrated Risk Management” assessment 
application, we are able to proactively monitor and provide focused 
support across the organization through subject matter expertise, 
resources, and global verification procedures to ensure conformance 
to our strict food safety standards.

In 2021, we achieved:

Zero recalls, Zero Incidents resulting in fines 
or penalties from non-compliance with food 
regulations or from voluntary codes related 
to the health and safety impacts of products 
or services.

Enhanced Pesticide Protocols

Every ADM facility has a standard operating procedure to manage 
risk from incoming raw materials with oversight and expertise 
provided by the ADM Quality Center of Excellence (CoE). Facilities 
constantly monitor for pesticide residue as an integral part of food 
safety assessment protocols. In addition, the products we make in 
corn processing facilities are put through various process steps like 
ion exchange which ensure any residues from the farm are removed. 
Results are audited by ADM’s robust internal auditing teams, regulatory 
auditing agencies, and oftentimes the customers of finished products. 
In addition to the strict food safety protocols that apply to incoming 
grain, ADM manages pests in its facilities through strict adherence to 
an approved list of pesticides, utilizing the Pesticide Action Network 
resources and guidance, logging all substances used and training of 
third-party pest control operators who adhere to strict protocols at 
all facilities.

Culture of Quality

Every year, food safety and quality training is performed. In 
September 2021, we held our second annual Global Food Safety 
Week for our colleagues around the globe to provide a dedicated 
time to refresh and refocus. We completed trainings and other 
activities to reinforce and educate our team on the critical role we 
all play toward achieving food safety and in delivering quality with 
every shipment. 

In 2021, we also began the process of implementing a companywide 
Quality Management System (QMS). This system will help us to 
further align all areas of our value chain to continue to deliver top 
quality products and services to our customers.

Innovation and Technology

Because food safety has always been a critical priority, we are 
constantly looking for improvement opportunities to move from safe 
to safer. We leverage new technologies and process innovations to 
improve food safety through: 

•  Increased ability to detect food safety risks 

•  Improved identification of food safety concerns 

•  Innovative safety controls 

•  Technology enhancements to drive predictive quality

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendix43

People and 
Communities

Supporting Others at Home and 
Around the Globe

SPOTLIGHT  Access to Water: Vietnam

Introduction

44 
45  ADM Cares
46 
47  Nutrition and Wellness for All
49  Workplace Safety
49  Human Capital Management

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendix44

Introduction

We believe that a skilled workforce and strong relationships with 
communities are core to our success and growth. As a global leader 
in nutrition, we believe we can make a lasting impact on the world. 
We offer our people the opportunity to contribute to something 
greater than themselves, and we ensure the wellbeing of the 
communities in which we serve and operate. 

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendix45

ADM Cares

At ADM, we believe in the concept of shared value creation. ADM’s 
corporate social investment program, ADM Cares, aligns corporate 
giving with our business strategies and sustainability objectives. 
Through the program, we work to sustain and strengthen our 
commitment to communities where we work, live, and operate by 
directing funding to initiatives and organizations driving meaningful 
social, economic, and environmental progress. 

The ADM Cares team evaluates potential projects submitted for 
funding to ensure they meet eligibility criteria, such as initiatives 
that support education, food security and hunger relief, or safe, 
responsible, and environmentally sound agricultural practices in 
critical growing regions around the world. The impacts from projects 
receiving ADM Cares support are measured through biannual 
outcome reports to allow for ongoing community needs assessments 
and to ensure critical issues are addressed.

2021 ADM Cares spending

$10.3

million

Education

Food Security

Sustainable 
Agriculture

Colleague Giving

Other

30%

34%

11%

10%

15%

ADM Cares grants target three focus areas that align 
with ADM’s mission of feeding the world: sustainability, 
hunger relief, and education, with a focus on agricultural 
education and science, technology, engineering and 
math (STEM) disciplines. In addition to these focus areas, 
ADM Cares programs advance ADM’s sustainability goals, 
with special attention to partnerships that advance. The 
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 
aligned with ADM’s sustainability and business objectives. 
Specifically, ADM Cares partnerships will support 
Goal 2: Zero Hunger; Goal 6: Clean Water and Sanitation; 
Goal 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth; Goal 13: 
Climate Action, and Goal 15: Life on Land, sustaining 
and strengthening communities where ADM colleagues 
work, live and operate by directing funding, volunteerism, 
and industry knowledge to initiatives and organizations 
that are driving meaningful social, economic and 
environmental progress worldwide. ADM Cares optimizes 
our social impacts around the world through partnerships 
that advance multiple ADM Cares focus areas, while 
advancing several of the United Nation’s Sustainable 
Development Goals. Through these partnerships, we are 
able to exponentially leverage our philanthropy to make a 
meaningful impact in the lives of many around the world. 

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendix46

T R A N S F O R M AT I O N   S P O T L I G H T

Access to Water: Vietnam

Many families living in the Mekong Delta, and in the Mo Cay Nam 
district in particular, are negatively affected by a lack of clean water. 
The salinity of the Ham Luong river continues to increase rapidly 
leading to soil salinization, threatening agriculture and human health.

In 2021, ADM and Aid for social protection program Foundation 
Vietnam (AFV) collaborated to support low-income farm households 
in overcoming the negative impacts from droughts and saltwater in 
Mo Cay Nam District, Ben Tre Province.

The project centers on two main activities: installing water tank 
systems for disadvantaged households, and organizing small 
seminars to educate farmers about the best usage methods in 
water conservation and management. 

ADM Cares has donated and supported the installation of water tanks 
for 218 households to strengthen their climate change resilience. 
These water tanks can hold up to 2 cubic meters of water, which 
is enough to cover the needs of one person for four weeks. Clean, 
fresh water is pumped directly to these tanks from drilled wells or 
from rain. The project also provided education to farmers and the 
community on water management, tank maintenance, child nutrition 
and gender equity.

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendix47

Nutrition and Wellness for All

Alternative Proteins

The world’s population is expected to reach 8.5 billion by 2030, up 
from 7.8 billion in 2020, according to data from the United Nations. 
Assuming this growth rate continues, current projections indicate that 
we will need to produce more food in the next 40 years than we have 
in the past 8,000 years to feed the world’s population. This is going 
to require alternatives that extend well beyond conventional protein 
sources. ADM is a global leader in nutrition and powers many of the 
world’s top food, beverage, health and wellness brands. 

To enhance our capabilities in food grade fermentation and develop 
alternative protein products, we are partnering with the Asia 
Sustainable Foods Platform, which provides precision fermentation 
consulting and technology development to companies serving the 
growing consumer demand in the wider Asia-Pacific region for bio-
based products, notably alternative proteins. Joint efforts, such as this 
one, are one of many ways we are trying to meet the skyrocketing 
demand for microbial fermentation solutions.

In the United States, Future Meat Technologies, co-led by ADM 
Ventures is accelerating plans for mass production of cultivated 
meat. In December, the company announced that it is now producing 
cultivated chicken breast for just $7.70 per pound, down from 
approximately $18 per pound six months prior. These types of 
products will be more accessible to consumers in the near future, 
helping to further the democratization of plant-based eating.

We plan to invest approximately $300 million to significantly expand 
our Decatur, Illinois, alternative protein production, as we continue 
to add capacity to meet strong demand growth. The state-of-the-art 
Protein Innovation Center will expand our cutting-edge, innovation 

complex, joining the company’s Food Application Center and Animal 
Nutrition Technology Center and enhance our ability to work closely 
with customers to develop custom solutions to meet their needs.

Personalized Nutrition

Consumers are actively seeking solutions that target their specific 
health and wellness needs. From individual health factors to 
personal histories and experiences, each person defines health and 
wellness differently. That’s one of many reasons that ADM supports 
our customers to help formulate the most impactful personalized 
nutrition products possible. Our portfolio has been painstakingly 
selected to provide both our customers and ultimately dietary 
supplement users with the best that nature has to offer.

In addition to our focus on prebiotics and probiotics, one key area of 
interest, and where ADM has some of the world’s first technology, is 
postbiotics. These functional bioactive compounds are generated during 
the fermentation process. Unlike probiotics or prebiotics, postbiotics 
can be heat-treated, which allows us to combine the biotic with 
other ingredients, opening up a world of possibility when it comes to 
personalizing a wide range of functional food and beverage products. 

ADM Ventures, the venture capital arm of ADM, is one of the key 
investors in Remedy Health, a revolutionary new personalized 
health tech company that specializes in 3D printing an assortment of 
wellness solutions, notably gummy vitamins which now incorporate 
a science-backed ingredient from ADM. ADM’s proprietary HT-BPL1™ 
postbiotic is the latest addition to the Nourished portfolio of 31 
vitamins, minerals and nutrients. It’s another example of how we are 
leveraging innovation and technology to deliver personalized nutrition.

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendix48

Animal Nutrition

Digital Dung Assessment

Antibiotic Reduction Program

ADM has made the process of evaluating cattle digestive health 
through manure evaluation easier and faster for farmers in the EU 
by developing the first mobile app that analyzes the risk of ruminal 
acidosis in a dairy herd. Ruminal acidosis is a metabolic disease 
related to the digestibility of certain animal feeds. Cereals like corn, 
barley and wheat are rapidly fermentable carbohydrates that support 
increased milk production but can also generate excess quantities 
of volatile fatty acids in a cow’s rumen as feed is digested which can 
negatively affect feed intake and milk production. Unfortunately, 
afflicted cows may not show any clinical signs before they go off feed, 
lose weight, become lethargic and suffer diarrhea.

Our user-friendly digital tool can estimate the risk of ruminal acidosis 
by uploading a picture of cow dung and answering a few yes or no 
questions. The app draws on the expertise of ADM technicians and 
artificial intelligence (AI) technology to evaluate the quality of cow 
digestion. ADM’s nutritional advisors evaluate the AI-generated 
preliminary diagnostic and then discuss potential solutions to address 
acidosis, including neutralizing acids in the rumen and adjusting the 
feed formulation. 

It is estimated that global antimicrobial use in poultry, cattle, and 
swine (which account for 93.75% of all food animals) will increase 
to 104,079 tonnes by 2030, equivalent to a growth of 11.5% since 
2017. In alignment with the global trend to regulate the overuse of 
antibiotics as growth promoters, ADM is dedicated to maintaining 
animal health and welfare through natural nutritional solutions and 
encouraging the reduction of antibiotics in livestock farms.

ADM’s Wisium business, which relies on a global network of R&D 
centers and laboratories, as well as a strong team of experts to 
provide a tailormade approach to meet local animal nutrition needs, 
is now offering a dedicated antibiotic reduction program for each 
livestock species to support producers in their efforts to reduce the 
use of antibiotics. Wisium’s P4L – Partner For Life concept takes a 
holistic approach that considers environmental, feeding and housing 
factors. This program is fully customized to address specific challenges 
for each species, meet the markets’ needs and expectations, and 
follow each country’s feed and food regulations.

We believe in expanding 
access to global nutrition, 
helping people and 
communities thrive 
with zero hunger.

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendixWorkplace Safety

Occupational health and safety 

Occupational health and safety is a top priority at ADM. We are 
committed to providing a safe working environment to all our 
employees and contractors. For the last several years, we have been 
on a journey to a goal of zero injuries – building a safety culture so 
everyone will go home safely to their families and the things that are 
most important to them.

We have a safety and health management system made up of a 
robust list of policies, standards and other supporting documentation, 
including life-critical standards governing our high-risk work. We use 
incident investigation processes and tools to continuously improve 
our management system and operational practices. Internal safety 
audits are an essential part of our governance and serve as an 
important tool to identify opportunities for improvement, reduce risk, 
support our compliance commitments, and share lessons learned. 

In 2021, about 80% of our sites completed the year without 
recordable injuries, and about 90% without lost workday injuries. We 
completed the year with no fatalities and a 50% reduction in serious 

injuries. Our Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) decreased from 
0.77 in 2020 to 0.73 in 2021, while our Lost Workday Incident Rate 
(LWIR) increased from 0.17 in 2020 to 0.21 in 2021.

We recently set a new, ambitious goal: by 2025, we aim to reduce 
our Total Recordable Incident Rate and Lost Workday Incident 
Rate by 50% over a 2020 baseline. We continue to take steps to 
further enhance the safety of our workplaces. We have launched or 
enhanced efforts to improve occupational safety, including: 

•  “Take Control” program, which identified over 65,000 machine 

access and guarding opportunities globally

•  Near-miss reporting and investigation
•  New colleague integration program

Through these actions, we aim to achieve continuous improvement 
in 2022, which will help us on our path to achieve our five-year target.

Contractors have always been part of our safety system and starting 
in 2021, we fully integrated them in our KPIs and incident rates 
published here.

TOTA L R ECORDABL E  INC ID ENT  RAT E  (TRIR)

LOST WORKDAY INCID ENT RATE (LWIR)

1.0

0.8

0.6

0.4

0.2

0.0

0.77

0.73

2020

2021

1.0

0.8

0.6

0.4

0.2

0.0

0.17

2020

0.21

2021

49

Human Capital Management

Training and Development

We never stop – learning, growing, imagining, creating, researching, 
developing, innovating, solving and supplying – what the world needs.

At ADM, employees participate in training and development 
programs that further increase knowledge, skills, and awareness on 
current and important topics relevant to their job roles. We offer 
voluntary virtual and on-demand learning, as well as equitable career 
opportunities including global assignments for high potential talent, 
internal career growth, and experiential learning through projects, 
mentorships, and on-the-job development.

We’re committed to developing all colleagues and helping them 
maximize their career aspirations through continuous learning 
and unique experiences over and above their formal roles. Every 
colleague at ADM has a development plan that is reviewed with their 
manager on a quarterly basis. We also conduct talent talks to discuss 
the careers of all colleagues and ensure we have the right people in 
the right jobs to maximize their potential and performance.

We offer a personalized coaching program to support the 
development of emerging leaders and high potential colleagues. 
Through the coaching program, employees are matched with a 
coach through a professional vetting process. These coaches become 
accountability partners and guide colleagues to develop relevant 
skills, improve communication, navigate challenges, and build more 
purpose and clarity in work and life. 

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendix50

Diversity, Equity and Inclusion

At ADM, our purpose of unlocking the power of nature to enrich 
quality of life highlights the significant role we play within an essential 
industry and the critical job each employee has within our company.

Our culture is focused on integrity, performance, innovation, diversity, 
equity, and inclusion. We are a truly global company of approximately 
41,000 employees working together to achieve extraordinary results. 
We find talented colleagues in a wide variety of roles – front-line 
production workers, supply chain experts who deliver to customers 
all over the world, engineering teams who continuously improve 
the company’s operations, sales and commercial teams who work 
closely with customers, finance professionals, and so many more. We 
continue to develop our workforce to remain relevant and deliver on 
ADM’s growth aspirations with a strong focus on sustainability.

We believe diversity, equity, and inclusion are key business priorities 
that will enable us to continue innovating, driving growth through 
customer focus, and delivering outstanding performance for 
shareholders. We promote a diverse workplace with equitable 
opportunities for all employees within an inclusive culture so that 
all colleagues globally feel they belong and are empowered to make 
meaningful contributions to the success of the company. With diverse 
backgrounds, perspectives, and experiences, our global teams drive 
innovative thinking, creating growth opportunities through diversity 
of thought. 

65%

Our DE&I strategy includes four focus areas: Leadership Engagement 
& Communication, Recruitment, Advancement & Retention, and 
Networks & Sponsorships. To ensure our strategy aligns with our 
overall business strategy, we have a global DE&I council. In 2018, we 
made a commitment through Paradigm for Parity® to achieve gender 
parity in our senior leadership team by 2030, and since then, we have 
improved our gender diversity from 21% to 26%. We are proud of our 
achievements to date, and we will continue to strengthen diversity 
within middle management and entry-level hiring to ensure long-term 
parity at the senior leadership level. This key strategic priority will 
continue to strengthen our ability to innovate and drive growth. 

Senior Leadership

Salaried Colleagues

79%

74%

73%

74%
MALE

21%

2018

2019

34%

26%

35%

2020

27%

36%

2021

26%
FEMALE

37%
FEMALE

66%

65%

64%

63%
MALE

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendixIn 2021, we launched the first of our Employee Resource Groups 
(ERGs) focused on women as part of our DE&I vision and strategy. 
The ERGs, also known as Affinity Groups, are voluntary, employee-led 
groups where colleagues with shared experiences, interests or goals 
can come together in a safe space to provide support, build a sense of 
community, and promote personal and professional development. 

We also held a Global Women’s Leadership Summit – a two-day 
virtual event aimed at inspiring and motivating ADM’s female 
leaders, as well as providing them with tools to help navigate career 
development to advance more women into senior leadership roles. 
The summit, which took place in March 2021, featured motivational 
speakers and roundtable discussions with members of ADM’s top 
leadership, Executive Committee, and Board of Directors, as well as a 
representative from Paradigm for Parity®.

At the industry level, we have been a key partner in the establishment 
of Together We Grow, a consortium of agricultural industry leaders 
united in a shared belief that American agriculture’s best days are 
yet to come. Emphasizing diversity and inclusion, Together We Grow 
works to build a modern workforce with the skills, experience, and 
capabilities needed to keep pace with the growing world.

51

ADM achieved a perfect score of 100 on 
the Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s 
2022 Corporate Equality Index, a 
benchmarking tool on corporate policies, 
practices and benefits that relate to 
LGBTQ+ workplace equality.

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendix52

Appendix

53  Verification Statement
55  GRI Content Index In Accordance
60  Related SASB Standards
61  TCFD Disclosures Index

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendixVerification Statement

53

  Page 2    Criteria against which verification conducted:  • The Climate Registry General Reporting Protocol (Scope 1 and Scope 2) • WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard (Scope 3) • ADM Methodology  Reference Standard:  • ISO 14064-3 Second edition 2019-04: Greenhouse gases -- Part 3: Specification with guidance for the verification and validation of greenhouse gas statements. Level of Assurance and Qualifications: • Limited • This verification used a materiality threshold of ±5% for aggregate errors in sampled data for each of the above indicators GHG Verification Methodology:  Evidence-gathering procedures included but were not limited to:  • Interviews with relevant personnel of ADM;  • Review of documentary evidence produced by ADM;  • Review of ADM’s data and information systems and methodology for collection, aggregation, analysis and review of information used to determine GHG emissions at ADM Headquarters (Remote) and during virtual site visits to Marshall, Minnesota and Mankato, Minnesota; and  • Audit of sample of data used by ADM to determine GHG emissions. Verification Opinion: Based on the process and procedures conducted, there is no evidence that the GHG emissions statement shown above: • is not materially correct and is not a fair representation of the GHG emissions data and information; and • has not been prepared in accordance with The Climate Registry General Reporting Protocol (Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions) and the WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard It is our opinion that ADM has established appropriate systems for the collection, aggregation and analysis of quantitative data for determination of these GHG emissions for the stated period and boundaries.  Statement of independence, impartiality and competence Apex is an independent professional services company that specializes in Health, Safety, Social and Environmental management services including assurance with over 30 years history in providing these services.  No member of the verification team has a business relationship with ADM, its Directors or Managers beyond that required of this assignment.  We conducted this verification independently and to our knowledge there has been no conflict of interest. Apex has implemented a Code of Ethics across the business to maintain high ethical standards among staff in their day-to-day business activities.    Page 3    The verification team has extensive experience in conducting assurance over environmental, social, ethical and health and safety information, systems and processes, has over 20 years combined experience in this field and an excellent understanding of Apex’s standard methodology for the verification of greenhouse gas emissions data. Attestation:    John A. Rohde, Lead Verifier    Trevor Donaghu, Technical Reviewer Practice Lead       Program Manager Apex Companies, LLC                   Apex Companies, LLC Lakewood, Colorado      Pleasant Hill, California May 2, 2022  This verification opinion declaration, including the opinion expressed herein, is provided to Archer Daniels Midland Company and is solely for the benefit of Archer Daniels Midland Company in accordance with the terms of our agreement. We consent to the release of this statement by you to CDP in order to satisfy the terms of CDP disclosure requirements but without accepting or assuming any responsibility or liability on our part to CDP or to any other party who may have access to this statement.     VERIFICATION OPINION DECLARATION GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS  To: The Stakeholders of Archer Daniels Midland Company  Apex Companies, LLC (Apex) was engaged to conduct an independent verification of the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reported by Archer Daniels Midland Company (ADM) for the period stated below. This verification opinion declaration applies to the related information included within the scope of work described below.  The determination of the GHG emissions is the sole responsibility of ADM. ADM is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the GHG statement in accordance with the criteria. Apex’s sole responsibility was to provide independent verification on the accuracy of the GHG emissions reported, and on the underlying systems and processes used to collect, analyze and review the information. Apex is responsible for expressing an opinion on the GHG statement based on the verification. Verification activities applied in a limited level of assurance verification are less extensive in nature, timing and extent than in a reasonable level of assurance verification.  Boundaries of the reporting company GHG emissions covered by the verification: • Operational Control  • Worldwide  • Exclusions include a small number (<10) of leased office spaces Types of GHGs: CO2, N2O, CH4, HFCs, PFCs, SF6,  GHG Emissions Statement: • Scope 1: 13,700,000 metric tons of CO2 equivalent • Scope 2 (Location-Based): 2,300,000 metric tons of CO2 equivalent • Biogenic Emissions: 4,000,000 metric tons CO2  • Biogenic Carbon Dioxide Sequestered: 444,000 metric tons CO2 • Scope 3: o Category 1 Purchased Goods and Services (Corn, wheat, 8 oilseeds) – 35,100,000 metric tons of CO2 equivalent o Category 3 – Fuel and Energy-related Activities - 1,900,000 metric tons of CO2 equivalent o Category 4 Upstream Transportation and Distribution (Intermare and some field aggregation for commodities in Category 1) - 3,600,000 metric tons of CO2 equivalent o Category 5 – Waste Generated in Operations - 200,000 metric tons of CO2 equivalent o Category 10 – Processing of Sold Goods - 26,000,000 metric tons of CO2 equivalent Data and information supporting the Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions statement were generally historical in nature. Data and information supporting the Scope 3 GHG emissions statement were in some instances estimated. Period covered by GHG emissions verification: • January 1, 2021 to December 31, 2021  OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendix54

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendix55

GRI Content Index In Accordance

Statement of use

GRI 1 used

Archer Daniels Midland Company has reported in accordance with the GRI Standards for the period January 1,2021 to December 31, 2021.

GRI 1: Foundation 2021 Applicable GRI

Applicable GRI Sector Standard(s)

NA

GRI STANDARD

DISCLOSURE

RESPONSE AND/OR PAGE NUMBERS AND/OR URL

OMISSIONS

General disclosures
GRI 2:
General Disclosures 2021

The organization and its reporting practices

2-1: Organizational details

Archer Daniels Midland Company and its subsidiaries; 
Location of headquarters: Chicago, Illinois, USA; Pages 5-6

2-2 Entities included in the organization’s sustainability reporting

Page 4, Operational Control

2-3 Reporting period, frequency and contact point

2-4 Restatements of information

2-5 External assurance

Activities and workers

Reporting period: Jan 1, 2021 to Dec 31, 2021; 
Frequency: Annual; Contact point: sustainability@adm.com

2019 Strive 35 baseline was recalculated in accordance 
with the GHG Protocol

Pages 53-54

2-6 Activities, value chain and other business relationships

10K pages 4-6; Pages 5-7, 10

2-7 Employees

2-8 Workers who are not employees

Governance

10K page 13

Global data is not 
available

2-9 Governance structure and composition

Page 12; ADM Proxy Statement 2022 pages 1-4, 8-10, 12-14

2-10 Nomination and selection of the highest governance body

ADM Proxy Statement 2022 pages 11, 23 and 28

2-11 Chair of the highest governance body

ADM Proxy Statement 2022 pages 12-14

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendix56

2-12 Role of the highest governance body in overseeing the management of impacts

Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility Committee Charter

2-13 Delegation of responsibility for managing impacts

Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility Committee Charter

2-14 Role of the highest governance body in sustainability reporting

Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility Committee Charter

2-15 Conflicts of interest

2-16 Communication of critical concerns

2-17 Collective knowledge of the highest governance body

ADM Proxy Statement 2022 page 26

ADM Way Helpline; responsibility@adm.com

Page 12; Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility Committee 
Charter; ADM Proxy Statement 2022 pages 12-14

2-18 Evaluation of the performance of the highest governance body

ADM Proxy Statement 2022 page 22

2-19 Remuneration policies

2-20 Process to determine remuneration

2-21 Annual total compensation ratio

Strategy, policies and practices

2-22 Statement on sustainable development strategy

2-23 Policy commitments

2-24 Embedding policy commitments

2-25 Processes to remediate negative impacts

ADM Corporate Governance Guidelines; ADM Proxy Statement 
2022 page 27, 52-53

ADM Proxy Statement 2022 page 27, 30, 35, 37 52-53

ADM Proxy Statement 2022 page 65

Page 2

Page 11

Page 11

Page 11

2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising concerns

ADM Way Helpline; responsibility@adm.com

2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations

2-28 Membership associations

Stakeholder Engagement

2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement

2-30 Collective bargaining agreements

10K page 11

Page 8

Page 15

15.9%, U.S. colleagues only

Material Topics
GRI 3:
Material Topics 2021

3-1 Process to determine material topics

3-2 List of material topics

Page 15

Page 15

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendix57

3-3 Management of material topics

Pages 39-41

205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures

Pages 39-41

Anti-corruption
GRI 3:
Material Topics 2021
GRI 205:
Anti-Corruption

Energy Management
GRI 3:
Material Topics 2021
GRI 302:
Energy

Water Management
GRI 3:
Material Topics 2021
GRI 303:
Water and Effluents

3-3 Management of material topics

302-1 Energy consumption within the organization

302-3 Energy intensity

302-4 Reduction of energy consumption

3-3 Management of material topics

303-3 Water withdrawal

Biodiversity, Deforestation & Conversion
GRI 3:
Material Topics 2021
GRI 304:
Biodiversity

3-3 Management of material topics

304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity

GHG Emissions
GRI 3:
Material Topics 2021

3-3 Management of material topics

Pages 21, 29-32

Pages  21, 33

Page 33

Page 33

Page 33

Pages  21, 34

Page 34

Pages  21, 22-24

Pages  22-24

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendix58

GRI 305:
Emissions

Operational Waste
GRI 3:
Material Topics 2021

Supply Chain Management
GRI 3:
Material Topics 2021
GRI 308:
Supplier Environmental Assessment
GRI 414:
Supplier Social Assessment

Occupational Health and Safety
GRI 3:
Material Topics 2021
GRI 403:
Occupational Health and Safety

Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
GRI 3:
Material Topics 2021
GRI 405:
Diversity and Equal Opportunity

305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions

305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions

305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions

305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions

3-3 Management of material topics

306-4 Waste diverted from disposal

Page 29

Page 29

Page 32

Page 29

Pages 21, 35

Page 35

3-3 Management of material topics

Pages 25-28, 39

308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken

Pages 25-28, 39

414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken

Pages 25-28, 39

3-3 Management of material topics

403-9 Work-related injuries

Pages 44, 49

Page 49

3-3 Management of material topics

Pages 44, 50-51

405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees

Pages 50-51

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendixCommunity Engagement and Charitable Giving
GRI 3:
Material Topics 2021
GRI 413:
Local Communities

3-3 Management of material topics

413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and 
development programs

59

Pages 44, 45-46

Pages 45-46

Human Rights
GRI 3:
Material Topics 2021
GRI 408:
Child Labor
GRI 409:
Forced or Compulsory Labor
GRI 412:
Human Rights Assessments

Food Safety & Quality
GRI 3:
Material Topics 2021
GRI 416:
Customer Health and Safety

3-3 Management of material topics

Page 39

408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor 

Page 39

409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced of 
compulsory labor 

412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact 
assessments

3-3 Management of material topics

416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of 
products and services

Page 39

Page 39

Page 42

Page 42

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendix 
 
Related SASB Standards

TOPIC
Greenhouse Gas Emissions

Energy Management
Water Management

Food Safety
Workforce Health & Safety
Environmental & Social Impacts of 
Ingredient Supply Chain

ACCOUNTING METRIC

Gross global Scope 1 emissions
Discussion of long-term and short-term strategy or plan to manage Scope 1 emissions, emissions reduction targets, and an 
analysis of performance against those targets
(1) Operational energy consumed, (2) percentage grid electricity, (3) percentage renewable

(1) Total water withdrawn
Description of water management risks and discussion of strategies and practices to mitigate those risks
(1) Number of recalls issued

(1) Total recordable incident rate (TRIR)

Percentage of agricultural products sourced that are certified to a third-party environmental and/or social standard, and 
percentages by standard

GMO Management
Ingredient Sourcing

Activity Metrics
Number of processing facilities

Suppliers’ social and environmental responsibility audit (1) non-conformance rate and (2) associated corrective action rate for (a) 
major and (b) minor non-conformances

FB-AG-430a.2

Discussion of strategy to manage environmental and social risks arising from contract growing and commodity sourcing
Discussion of strategies to manage the use of genetically modified organisms (GMOs)

FB-AG-430a.3
FB-AG-430b.1

Identification of principal crops and description of risks and opportunities presented by climate change

FB-AG-440a.1

Pages 7, 14, 21-22, 23-25

FB-AG-000.B

Page 7

60

CODE

RESPONSE AND/OR PAGE 
NUMBERS AND/OR URL

FB-AG-110a.1
FB-AG-110a.2

Page 29
Pages 29 -30

FB-AG-130a.1

FB-AG-140a.1
FB-AG-140a.2
FB-AG-250a.3

FB-AG-320a.1

FB-AG-430a.1

Page 33

Page 34
Page 34
Page 42

Page 49

Pages 26-27
Sustainability Progress 
Reports
Pages 26-27
Sustainability Progress 
Reports
Pages 22-23, 25-27
Page 11

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendixTCFD Disclosures Index

The following index provides response/ location to ADM’s reporting on the recommendation of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosure (TCFD).

RECOMMENDATIONS
Governance

Strategy

Risk Management

Metrics and Targets

RECOMMENDED DISCLOSURES

Board’s oversight of climate – related risks and opportunities
Management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities
Climate-related risks and opportunities the organization has identified over the short, medium, and long term
Impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy, and financial planning
Resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking into consideration different climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenario.
Process for identifying and assessing climate-related risks.
Process for managing climate-related risks.
Process for identifying, assessing, and managing climate-related risks are integrated into the organization’s overall risk management.
Metrics used by the organization to assess climate-related risks and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk management process.
Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and the related risks.
Targets used by the organization to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and performance against targets.

61

RESPONSE AND/ OR PAGE 
NUMBERS AND/OR URL

Page 12
Page 12
Pages 13-14
Pages 13-14
Pages 13-14
Pages 12-13
Pages 12-13
Pages 12-13
Pages 16, 29, 32
Pages 16, 29, 32
Pages 16, 29, 32

OverviewGovernanceClimateIntegrityPeople and CommunitiesAppendix77 West Wacker Drive, Suite 4600  
Chicago, Illinois 60601

