SUSTAINABILITY ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (SASB) DISCLOSURE 
TOPICS INDUSTRY STANDARDS FOR ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES

EN ER GY   M A N AG EM EN T

S A S B ME T R I C

O UR R E S P O N S E

1. Total energy consumed (GJ)

3, 356,1 51

2. Percentage grid electricity

17%

3. Percentage renewable energy 

10%
Although Brown Forman uses biogas and wood for energy, they are not 
third-party certified and are not included in this percentage given SASB 
definition/criteria. This percentage includes retired renewable energy 
credits from The East Forks Wind Renewable Power Purchase Agreement.

WAT ER  M A N AG EM EN T

S A S B ME T R I C

O UR R E S P O N S E

1. Total water withdrawn (m3)

2a. Total water consumed (m3)

2b. Percentage of each in regions 
with High or Extremely High 
Baseline Water Stress

 3,454, 385

1,980,919

18%

Description of water management 
risks and discussion of strategies 
and practices to mitigate those risks

Water is one of the major components of our products, so the quality 
and quantity of available water is important to our ability to operate our 
business. Globally, our company faces some direct risk associated with 
water scarcity due to the location of our operations and the requirements 

C O D E

FB-A B-1 30a.1

FB-A B-1 30a.1

FB-A B-1 30a.1

C O D E

FB-A B-140a.1

FB-A B-140a.1

FB-A B-140a.1

FB-A B-140a.2

for water in our production processes and finished products. This risk 
stems from constraints on the available quantity, quality, and cost of water 
supplies across our enterprise. However, the majority of our operations are 
not located in high or extremely high baseline water stress areas.

If droughts become more common or severe, or if our water supply were 
interrupted for other reasons, high-quality water could become scarce 
in some key production regions for our products, including Tennessee, 
Kentucky, California, and Mexico. Also within our supply chain, we utilize 
co-packers for final completion of products. These facilities, while outside 
our operational control, rely upon high quality water to carry out their 
services. Any disruption to their operations could impact the production 
and delivery of products.

To mitigate these risks we completed watershed risk assessments in key 
watershed areas, and are now implementing plans focused on protecting 
these watersheds. We continue to focus on operational improvements on 
our use of water. 

We have formalized new water stewardship commitments to protect the 
health of key watersheds in our communities and create Net Positive Water 
Impact in water-stressed basins where we operate, so that all watershed 
users have sufficient access to the amount and quality of water that meets 
their needs.

RE SP O NSI BL E D RI N K I N G & M A RK E T I N G

S A S B ME T R I C

O UR R E S P O N S E

Percentage of total advertising 
impressions made on individuals 
at or above the legal drinking age

2021 Annual Integrated Report, pg. 19
U.S. only

C O D E

FB-A B-270a.1

Number of incidents of non-compliance 
with industry or regulatory labeling 
and/or marketing codes 

T wo. One complaint in the Czech Republic was upheld by the Advertising 
Council. One complaint in India was upheld by the Advertising Standards 
Council of India.

FB-A B-270a.2

Total amount of monetary losses 
as a result of legal proceedings 
associated with marketing and/or 
labeling practices

Description of efforts to promote 
responsible consumption of alcohol

None

FB-A B-270a. 3

See Alcohol Responsibility; 2021 Annual Integrated Report pgs. 18-19

FB-A B-270a.4

PACK AG I N G L I F ECYCL E M A N AG EM EN T

S A S B ME T R I C

O UR R E S P O N S E

C O D E

1. Total weight of packaging

Brown-Forman is in the process of sourcing data for the majority of our markets.

FB-A B-410a.1

2a. Percentage made from recycled 
and/or renewable materials

2b. Percentage that is recyclable, 
reusable, and/or compostable

Discussion of strategies to reduce the 
environmental impact of packaging 
throughout its lifecycle

Brown-Forman is in the process of sourcing data for the majority of our markets.

FB-A B-410a.1

Brown-Forman is in the process of sourcing data for the majority of our markets.

FB-A B-410a.1

2021 Annual Integrated Report, pgs. 20, 23

FB-A B-410a.1

Brown Forman has formalized new commitments on packaging to guide 
strategies to reduce the environmental impact of our packaging throughout 
its lifecycle. We are committed to 100% of primary packaging to be recyclable 
or reusable by 2030, eliminating unnecessary and problematic materials and 
implementing circular product systems, significantly increasing the recycled 
content of product packaging materials by 2030.

Design: At Brown-Forman, all projects that involve a new packaging format or 
a change to an existing packaging format are overseen by the Brown-Forman 
Project Management Office. These projects are required to go through the 
Brown-Forman Stage Gate Process, which includes a Sustainability Review.

During 2019, Brown-Forman completed a redesign of its Finlandia Vodka 
packaging used in all markets globally. The bottle design was updated across all 

sizes and SKUs, resulting in an average glass weight reduction of approximately 
15%. Brown-Forman also moved its Jack Daniel Single Barrel product from 
virgin glass with 0% recycled content to commercial glass, which includes on 
average 30% recycled content. This change was completed to reduce packaging 
impacts and result in cost savings.

Transportation: As part of the packaging design review, Brown-Forman works 
to optimize the size and weight of cases that are used to transport our brands 
to market. While ship cases (made from cardboard) are usually recyclable, 
they are not typically reused and thus represent an opportunity for additional 
reduction and innovation.

Working with Suppliers: Brown-Forman has regular, informal meetings 
with  Tier 1 (those who supply materials directly to Brown-Forman production 
operations) packaging suppliers to discuss opportunities to improve 
sustainability  of packaging. 

Partnerships: As part of our membership in the Beverage Industry 
Environmental Roundtable (BIER), Brown-Forman participated in the 
development of the Circular Footprint Formula (CFF) Calculator tool. This tool 
is designed to help organizations estimate the environmental impact of their 
packaging choices using standardized criteria. This CFF tool is a result of work 
completed as part of the Product Environmental Footprint development process 
in the European Union, in which BIER actively participated.

EN V I R O N M EN TA L & S O CI A L I M PAC T S  O F I N G RED I EN T SU P P LY CH A I N

S A S B ME T R I C

O UR R E S P O N S E

Suppliers’ social and environmental 
responsibility audit 1. Non-
conformance rate and 2. Associated 
corrective action rate for (a) major 
and (b) minor non-conformances

At this time, we do not conduct environmental and social audits of our 
supply chain.

C O D E

FB-A B-430a.1

I N G RED I EN T S O U R CI N G

S A S B ME T R I C

O UR R E S P O N S E

Percentage of beverage ingredients 
sourced from regions with High or 
Extremely High Baseline Water Stress

57% 
While this metric reflects the range of our agricultural inputs sourced from 
high water stressed regions, including agave, the agave plants do not require 
significant water for growth and are not known to contribute to water stress 
in the region.

List of priority beverage ingredients 
and description of sourcing risks 
due to environmental and social 
considerations

Priority Beverage Ingredients: Corn, Rye, Malted Barley, Grapes, Agave. Higher 
costs or insufficient availability of suitable grain, agave, water, and other input 
materials, or higher associated labor costs or insufficient availability of labor, 
may adversely affect our results of operations and/or financial results. Weather, 
the effects of climate change, fires, diseases, and other agricultural uncertain-
ties that affect the mortality, health, yield, quality, or price of the various raw 
materials used in our products also present risks for our business, including in 
some cases potential impairment in the recorded value of our inventory. Chang-
es in weather patterns or intensity can disrupt our supply chain as well, which 
may affect production operations, insurance costs and coverage, and the timely 
delivery of our products.

See also Form 10-K/A, Part 1. Item 1. Ingredients and Other Supplies, pg. 8 (for 
Fiscal year ended April 30, 2021)

AC T I V I T Y   M E T RI C S

S A S B ME T R I C

O UR R E S P O N S E

Volume of products sold

46.9 million 9-liter cases

Number of production facilities

20

Total f leet road miles traveled

4,714,825
This number represents the f leet miles traveled for our U.S. and Canada 
sales f leet business miles, and does not incorporate product distribution 
road miles.

C O D E

FB-A B-440a.1

FB-A B-4a40a.2

C O D E

FB-A B-000.A

FB-A B-000.B

FB-A B-000.C

