Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Disclosure Topics
Industry Standards for Alcoholic Beverages

ENERGY MANAGEMENT

SASB METRIC

OUR RESPONSE

1. Total energy consumed (GJ)

2,997,811

2. Percentage grid electricity,

3. Percentage renewable energy

17%

14%

In March 2022, we began offsetting 100% of our U.S. electricity consumption. 
Although Brown Forman uses biogas and wood for energy, they are not third-
party certified and are not included in this percentage given SASB definition/
criteria. This percentage includes retired renewable energy credits from The 
East Forks Wind Power Purchase Agreement and on-site renewable energy 
generation. As of FY2021, 84% of Brown-Forman’s electricity consumption is 
from renewable sources.

See also 2022 Integrated Annual Report pg. 22.

WATER MANAGEMENT

SASB METRIC

OUR RESPONSE

1. Total water withdrawn (m3),

3,690,204

2. a. Total water consumed (m3),

 2,333,546

CODE

FB-AB-130a.1

FB-AB-130a.1

FB-AB-130a.1

CODE

FB-AB-140a.1

FB-AB-140a.1

CODE

FB-AB-140a.1

FB-AB-140a.2

WATER MANAGEMENT, continued

SASB METRIC

OUR RESPONSE

2 b. percentage of each in 
regions with High or Extremely 
High Baseline Water Stress

Water withdrawn = 16%

Water consumed = 17%

Description of water 
management risks and 
discussion of strategies and 
practices to mitigate those risks

Water is an essential component of our products, so the quality and quantity 
of available water is important to our ability to operate our business. Globally, 
our company faces some direct risks associated with water scarcity due to the 
location of our operations and the requirements for water in our production 
processes and finished products. This risk stems from constraints on the 
available quantity, quality, and cost of water supplies across our enterprise. 
However, the majority of our operations are not located in high or extremely 
high baseline water stress areas.

If droughts become more common or severe, or if our water supply were 
interrupted for other reasons, high-quality water could become scarce in some 
key production regions for our products, including Tennessee, Kentucky, 
California, Finland, Scotland, Ireland, and Mexico, which in turn could adversely 
affect our business and financial results. Also within our supply chain, we utilize 
co-packers for final completion of products. These facilities, while outside our 
operational control, rely upon high-quality water to carry out their services. 
Any disruption to their operations could impact the production and delivery of 
products.

To manage water risk, we have completed watershed risk assessments to 
evaluate watersheds we operate in that are considered at-risk or business-
critical. Following the assessments, we have begun to develop multi-year 
mitigation plans to address risk. We also continue to focus on operational 
improvements in our use of water. 

We have formalized new water stewardship commitments to protect the health 
of key watersheds in our communities and create Net Positive Water Impact 
in water-stressed basins where we operate, so that all watershed users have 
sufficient access to the amount and quality of water that meets their needs.

RESPONSIBLE DRINKING & MARKETING

SASB METRIC

OUR RESPONSE

Percentage of total advertising 
impressions made on individuals 
at or above the legal drinking 
age

See 2022 ESG Scorecard.
U.S. only

Number of incidents of non-
compliance with industry or 
regulatory labeling and/or 
marketing codes 

See 2022 Integrated Annual Report. There were two complaints made through 
industry regulatory agencies, but zero were upheld, including one complaint 
in India by ASCI. The ad was withdrawn from circulation, which ASCI took on 
record as an Informal Resolution of Complaint under reference 2201-C.3882.

Total amount of monetary losses 
as a result of legal proceedings 
associated with marketing and/
or labeling practices

None.

CODE

FB-AB-270a.1

FB-AB-270a.2

FB-AB-270a.3

Description of efforts 
to promote responsible 
consumption of alcohol

See Alcohol Responsibility; See 2022 Integrated Annual Report pgs. 5, 19, 28, 31.

FB-AB-270a.4

PACKAGING LIFECYCLE MANAGEMENT

SASB METRIC

OUR RESPONSE

CODE

1. Total weight of packaging, 

Brown-Forman is in the process of sourcing data for the majority of our markets.

FB-AB-410a.1

2. a. percentage made from 
recycled and/or renewable 
materials, 

b. and percentage that is 
recyclable, reusable, and/or 
compostable

Brown-Forman is in the process of sourcing data for the majority of our markets.

FB-AB-410a.1

Brown-Forman is in the process of sourcing data for the majority of our markets.

FB-AB-410a.1

CODE

FB-AB-410a.2

PACKAGING LIFECYCLE MANAGEMENT, continued

SASB METRIC

OUR RESPONSE

Discussion of strategies to 
reduce the environmental 
impact of packaging throughout 
its lifecycle

See 2022 Integrated Annual Report, pg. 22

In 2021, Brown Forman formalized new commitments on packaging to guide strategies 

to reduce the environmental impact of our packaging throughout its lifecycle. We are 

committed to 100% of primary packaging being recyclable or reusable by 2030, eliminating 

unnecessary and problematic materials and implementing circular product systems, 

significantly increasing the recycled content of product packaging materials by 2030.

The most significant packaging we use — and the most substantial in terms of 

environmental impact — are the glass bottles that hold our spirits. In fiscal 2022, Brown-

Forman created a Packaging Council that meets regularly to discuss ways to improve 

packaging sustainability and glass use. As a result of this team’s work, sustainability 

considerations are now part of all packaging design briefs.

Our Travel Retail business recently demonstrated its embrace of this commitment by 

setting interim goals to remove 100% of single-use plastic from promotions by 2023 and 

reduce 50% of gift packaging by 2027.

Design: At Brown-Forman, all projects that involve a new packaging format or a change 

to an existing packaging format are overseen by the Brown-Forman Project Management 

Office. These projects are required to go through the Brown-Forman Stage Gate Process, 

which includes a Sustainability Review.

Transportation: As part of the packaging design review, Brown-Forman works to 

optimize the size and weight of cases that are used to transport our brands to market. 

While ship cases (made from cardboard) are usually recyclable, they are not typically 

reused and thus represent an opportunity for additional reduction and innovation.

Working with Suppliers: Brown-Forman has regular, informal meetings with Tier 

1 (those who supply materials directly to Brown-Forman production operations) 

packaging suppliers to discuss opportunities to improve the sustainability of packaging. 

Additionally, Brown-Forman is in the process of qualifying new PET bottles that contain 

15% post-consumer recycled content as a replacement for bottles that do not contain any 

post-consumer recycled content. 

ENVIRONMENTAL & SOCIAL IMPACTS OF INGREDIENT SUPPLY CHAIN

SASB METRIC

OUR RESPONSE

CODE

Suppliers’ social and 
environmental responsibility 
audit 1. Non-conformance rate 
and 2. Associated corrective 
action rate for (a) major and (b) 
minor non-conformances

INGREDIENT SOURCING

SASB METRIC

Percentage of beverage 
ingredients sourced from 
regions with High or Extremely 
High Baseline Water Stress

List of priority beverage 
ingredients and description 
of sourcing risks due to 
environmental and social 
considerations

At this time, we do not conduct environmental and social audits of our supply 
chain.

FB-AB-430a.1

In 2022, we completed a Human Rights and Modern Slavery risk assessment of 
our global supply chains. Based on the results of this risk assessment, a Human 
Rights committee was formed to develop and implement an improvement 
strategy to reduce the social risks and impacts of our supply chain. 

See also 2022 Integrated Annual Report, pg. 9

OUR RESPONSE

37% 

CODE

FB-AB-440a.1

While this metric reflects the range of our agricultural inputs sourced from 
high water-stressed regions, including agave, the agave plants do not require 
significant water for growth and are not known to contribute to water stress in 
the region.

Priority Beverage Ingredients: Agave, Barley, Corn, Grapes, Malted Barley, Rye, and 
Wood. From time to time, our priority beverage ingredients could be adversely 
affected by weather and other forces out of our control that might constrain 
supply or reduce our inventory below desired levels for optimum production. 

FB-AB-440a.2

The effects of climate change, fires, diseases, and other agricultural 
uncertainties that affect the mortality, health, yield, quality, or price of the 
various raw materials used in our products also present risks for our business, 
including in some cases potential impairment in the recorded value of our 
inventory. Changes in weather patterns or intensity can disrupt our supply chain 
as well, which may affect production operations, insurance costs and coverage, 
and the timely delivery of our products.

See also Form 10-K/A, Part 1. Item 1. Ingredients and Other Supplies, pg. 7 (for 
Fiscal year ended April 30, 2022)

ACTIVITY METRICS

SASB METRIC

OUR RESPONSE

Volume of products sold

47.1 million 9-liter cases 

Number of production facilities

20

Total fleet road miles traveled

13,623,316

CODE

FB-AB-000.A

FB-AB-000.B

FB-AB-000.C

This number represents our global sales fleet business miles traveled and does 
not incorporate product distribution road miles.

