TCFD Report 
2022 

sustainability.ford.com  I  shareholder.ford.com 

Contents 

Introduction 

Our Climate-Related 
Risks and Opportunities 

Our Strategic 
Response 

Approach and 
Introduction to Scenarios 

Ford’s Risk 
Management Approach 

Metrics and Targets 

TCFD Index 2022 

Appendix 

Contents 

Introduction 
Letter from Bill Ford and Jim Farley  

Company Purpose  

Ford’s Road to Carbon Neutrality  

Responding to the Climate Challenge  

Governance and Accountability  

Public Policy and Engagement  

3 
3 

4 

5 

7 

9 

Approach and Introduction to Scenarios  
Our Approach to Scenario Analysis  

Introduction to the Scenarios  

Common Assumptions for WEO Scenarios  

2030-2040 Scenario Comparison Overview  

Methodologies and Assumptions  

10 

Implications of Scenarios  

Resilience of Ford’s Strategy  

Our Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities  
Climate-related risks and their impact  
on the business  

Climate-related opportunities for the business  

Our Strategic Response  
Electrification Plan  

Advances in Engine and Transmission Technologies  

Enhancing Customer Experience  

Considering a Just Transition and Climate Justice   

Improving the Transportation Ecosystem  

Migrating to Sustainable Materials  

Transforming our own Operations  

Decarbonization of the Supply Chain  

Sustainable Financing  

12 

12 

13 

14 
14 

17 

17 

17 

18 

18

19

22 

22 

Our Risk Management Approach  
Process for Monitoring Climate-Related Issues  

Metrics and Targets  

TCFD Index 2022  
Appendix 

24 
24 

24 

24 

24 

25 

25 

26 

27 
27 

29 

34 
35 

2  |  TCFD Report 2022 

About this report 
Our climate is changing faster than the world can keep 
up. Rising sea levels, droughts, and forest fires indicate 
the urgency of the situation. A comprehensive effort 
is needed to meet the goals of the Paris Agreement. 
At Ford, we’re doing our part to address the urgency 
of climate change and to help build a better world 
for everyone. 

Ford has published a Task Force on Climate-Related 
Financial Disclosure (TCFD) Index and a Climate Change 
Scenario Report since 2019 to be transparent around our 
climate change resiliency efforts. Using the TCFD 
framework, this year, we are releasing our first TCFD 
narrative report, which combines our TCFD Index and 
Climate Change Scenario Report and provides a progress 
update across each of the TCFD pillars: Governance, 
Strategy, Risk Management, and Metrics and Targets. 

It sets out our current understanding of the risks and 
opportunities associated with climate change and the 
resilience of Ford’s strategy and business model under 
different climate scenarios. 

The TCFD report supplements our Integrated Sustainability 
and Financial Report 2022 and sits alongside our 
standalone  Human Rights Report 2022, both of which 
also examine aspects of climate change. It is aligned with 
the  UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and our 
response to CDP (formerly known as the Climate 
Disclosure Project). 

Not only does it build on our prior TCFD and Climate 
Change Scenario Reports, but this report also represents 
a step in our deepening understanding of climate risks 
and opportunities – for Ford, our industry and the world. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Contents 

Introduction 

Our Climate-Related 
Risks and Opportunities 

Our Strategic 
Response 

Approach and 
Introduction to Scenarios 

Ford’s Risk 
Management Approach 

Metrics and Targets 

TCFD Index 2022 

Appendix 

Introduction 

Bill Ford 
Executive 
Chair 

Jim Farley 
President and Chief 
Executive Officer 

3  |  TCFD Report 2022 

measure up. Countries around the world are defining 
access to clean air and water as fundamental human 
rights. We at Ford agree – and are setting clear targets for 
reducing the global emissions of our entire supply chain. 

Whenever the world faces disruption and uncertainty, 
Ford has stepped up to shape it for the better. We are at 
our best when we are creating something larger than 
ourselves. In this time of profound change, we will answer 
the call to lead our industry towards a more sustainable 
future, while giving our customers the very best of Ford. 

Bill Ford  
Executive Chair 

Jim Farley 
President and Chief Executive Officer 

Letter From Bill Ford and Jim Farley 
For all of us at Ford, the truest mark of success is whether 
we leave the world a better place for the next generation. 
From our earliest days to the present day, Ford has 
followed that north star. 

We invented the moving assembly line and the $5 
workday, scaled the Model T, forged the Arsenal of 
Democracy, and converted our plants to make ventilators 
and masks during the pandemic. Each generation faces 
different challenges, but our purpose has always been the 
same: to help build a better world, where every person is 
free to move and pursue their dreams. 

Today, our industry and our world are going through a 
period of immense change. We believe it gives us the 
opportunity to create the most value for the company and 
our customers since Henry Ford scaled the Model T. But 
the change in our industry makes it even more important 
to stay true to the values that have defined our company. 
We publish this report to hold ourselves accountable and 
determine if we are truly moving the needle on the issues 
that matter. 

Climate change, for example, is among the biggest 
challenges of our generation. We all share the 
responsibility to address the threat it poses our economy, 
our health, and our way of life. Just like the Model T 
revolutionized mobility, we believe electrification can do 
the same for reducing carbon emissions. So, we have 
been transforming our business to lead the electric 
revolution at scale, creating distinct but complementary 
businesses – Ford Model e, Ford Blue and Ford Pro – 
that will help us compete and win in the new era of 
electric and connected vehicles. 

We are introducing all-electric versions of our most 
popular, iconic nameplates – the F-150 Lightning, the 
Mustang Mach-E, and the E-Transit van – and scaling 
production to reach a target of producing more than 
2 million electric vehicles per year by 2026. We are also 

leading a new era of sustainable manufacturing, re-
thinking not just what we build, but how we build. In 
Tennessee and Kentucky, we have made the largest 
one-time U.S. investment by any automotive 
manufacturer to construct the most sustainable 
manufacturing facilities in our history. Around the world, 
we are dedicating more than $50 billion through 2026 to 
accelerate our zero-emission vehicle plan and create an 
ultra-efficient manufacturing system for our vehicles and 
the batteries that power them, helping us achieve our 
goal of carbon neutrality by 2050. Our aspiration is to 
achieve a business model that goes beyond net-zero and 
becomes a net-positive for both the environment and 
the  economy. 

Investing in electric vehicles is the right thing to do for 
our children and grandchildren. It is also the right thing to 
do for our business. The demand for our first-generation 
electric vehicles has far exceeded expectations. We 
believe we can profitably grow as we invest in electric 
vehicles, connectivity, and modernization. We plan to 
maximize the potential offered by digital, connected 
vehicles to make our products more accessible, more 
inclusive, and safer to drive than ever before. We are 
proving that you can drive prosperity and protect the 
planet at the same time, and investors are taking notice. 

At Ford, we have always strived to take the long view 
on the environment, even when it was unpopular. 
We were one of the first industrial companies to publish 
our progress towards sustainability, one of the first 
automakers to support the Paris Agreement, and the only 
full-line American automaker to partner with California 
on more stringent emissions standards. Now, we intend 
to lead the industry in another respect by putting a 
spotlight on human rights. 

Ford is publishing stand-alone Human Rights Report –  
a first for the company and for the U.S. auto industry.  
It will examine how our materials are sourced, where our 
products are manufactured, and how our labor standards 

 
  
Contents 

Introduction 

Our Climate-Related 
Risks and Opportunities 

Our Strategic 
Response 

Approach and 
Introduction to Scenarios 

Ford’s Risk 
Management Approach 

Metrics and Targets 

TCFD Index 2022 

Appendix 

Introduction  continued 

– 

Company Purpose 
We’ve been building the future for 118 years now, and we 
continue to invest to help build a better tomorrow. We 
take action because the future of this company centers 
on a purpose bigger than building vehicles and services. 
We are helping to build a better world, where every 
person is free to move and pursue their dreams. A world 
that is fully electric. A world that is more equitable, 
inclusive, and sustainable. And in doing so, we are putting 
people, the planet, and our shared prosperity first. 

We are directing our investments toward what’s good for 
people and the planet, which is also good for our 
business, and will help achieve our goal of carbon 
neutrality no later than 2050. 

Through our work in advancing our climate change  
activities, we are contributing to the following UN SDGs: 

4  |  TCFD Report 2022 

Environmental   
Aspirational Goals 

Climate Change: Achieve carbon  
neutrality no later than 2050 

Air: Attain zero emissions from  
our vehicles and facilities 

Water: Make zero water withdrawals  
for manufacturing processes 

Use freshwater only for human consumption 

Energy: Use 100 percent carbon-free 
electricity in all manufacturing by 2035 

Materials: Utilize only recycled or renewable  
content in vehicle plastics 

Waste: Reach true zero waste to landfill  
across our operations 

Eliminate single-use plastics from  
our operations by 2030 

 
  
Contents 

Introduction 

Our Climate-Related 
Risks and Opportunities 

Our Strategic 
Response 

Approach and 
Introduction to Scenarios 

Ford’s Risk 
Management Approach 

Metrics and Targets 

TCFD Index 2022 

Appendix

Introduction  continued 
 – 

Ford’s Road to  
Carbon Neutrality 
Over the past 20 years, Ford has 
progressively developed our 
understanding of climate-related 
risks and opportunities while 
updating and setting increasingly 
ambitious goals. We are proud of  
the progress we have made to date 
and look forward to achieving  
the milestones ahead as we  
continue on our journey to  
carbon neutrality. 

5  |  TCFD Report 2022 

1999: 
Published our first 
Corporate Citizenship 
Report, “Connecting  
with Society” 

2018: 
Met our goal to reduce 
operational GHG emissions 
per vehicle produced by  
30% eight years early 

2004: 
Reopened our Ford Rouge 
Center with a living roof (the 
world’s largest green roof at 
the time), daylighting system 
and waste minimization 

Launched the Escape Hybrid 

2015: 
Launched the lightweight,  
all-aluminum F-150 Lightning 

2007: 
Joined the United States 
Climate Action Partnership 
and UN Global Compact 

2009: 
Launched the EcoBoost 
engine, which optimizes 
power and efficiency using 
turbocharging and direct 
gasoline injection 

2014: 
Implemented Partnership for a 
Cleaner Environment (PACE) 
supplier program 

Signed the UN CEO Water Mandate 

Announced saving of more than 
10 billion gallons of water 

2011: 
Launched the full 
electric Focus EV 

2020: 
Set aspiration to be carbon neutral no later than 2050 

Launched all-electric Mustang Mach-E 

Achieved 75% absolute reduction in water use since 2000 

Offered 155,000 charging stations in Europe on the FordPass 
Charging Network, in partnership with NewMotion 

2021: 
Set approved science-based emissions targets (SBTi) for our 
operations and vehicles  

Joined RouteZero working toward 100% zero-emissions vehicles 
(ZEVs) globally in 2040 

Launched new Sustainable Financing Framework and the first 
transaction from it, a $2.5 billion green bond 

Tied Corporate and Supplemental Credit Revolvers to  
sustainability-linked KPIs 

Required suppliers to submit science-based GHG reduction targets 

 
  
Contents 

Introduction 

Our Climate-Related 
Risks and Opportunities 

Our Strategic 
Response 

Approach and 
Introduction to Scenarios 

Ford’s Risk 
Management Approach 

Metrics and Targets 

TCFD Index 2022 

Appendix 

Introduction  continued 

– 

2022: 
Launch all-electric F-150 Lightning and all-electric E-Transit 

Plan to spend $5 billion on electric vehicles (EVs) in 2022,  
a two-fold increase over 2021 

Power Dearborn Truck Plant, Michigan Assembly Plant and  
several new buildings on our Research and Engineering and  
Corktown campuses with 100% renewable electricity 

2026: 
Invest  $50 billion in EVs since 2022 

Reach 100% passenger vehicle range in Europe with 
zero-emissions capable, all-electric or plug-in hybrid 

Produce more than 2 million electric vehicles annually, 
about one-third of Ford’s global volume 

2023: 
Begin EV manufacturing in Cologne 

Raise global EV capacity to 
600,000 by year end 

2024: 
Achieve zero emissions 
capability for full range of 
European Light Commercial  
Vehicles 

2025: 
Build electric F-Series and battery packs with SK  
Innovation at BlueOval City 

Source 100 percent carbon-free electricity for all Michigan  
manufacturing facilities  

Launch new North American and EU programs with 20%  
recycled or renewable content in plastics (and programs  
from China and Turkey with 10%) 

2030: 
Achieve EV commitments 

– Globally: 50% 
– US: 50% 
–  EU: 100% of passenger cars, 2/3 of commercial vehicle sales 
– Lincoln: 100% 

Reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from U.S.  
manufacturing facilities 50% (Better Climate Initiative) 

Eliminate single-use plastics from our operations 

2035: 
Meet our SBTi science-based  
emission targets for operations 
and vehicles 

Work towards 100% zero-
emission vehicles (ZEVs) in 
leading markets (RouteZero) 

Achieve 100 percent carbon-free 
electricity for our global 
operations 

2040: 
Work towards 100% zero-
emission cars and vans 
globally (RouteZero) 

2050: 
Carbon  
Neutrality 

6  |  TCFD Report 2022 

 
 
 
 
 
  
Contents

Introduction

Our Climate-Related 
Risks and Opportunities

Our Strategic 
Response

Approach and  
Introduction to Scenarios

Ford’s Risk 
Management Approach

Metrics and Targets

TCFD Index 2022

Appendix

Introduction – continued

Responding to the Climate Challenge
Climate is changing faster than the world can keep up. 
Rising sea levels, more frequent droughts, severe storms, 
and forest fires combined with environmental 
degradation threaten food, water, health, and energy 
security. Ford is working to minimize its impact on the 
climate aligned with the United Nations Framework 
Convention on Climate Change (the Paris Agreement). 
Ford identified addressing Just Transition as part of how 
we manage climate change, one of our salient human 
rights issue.

à	

Read more on our salient issues in our Human Rights 
Report 2022 

Global Trends Impacting our Business
The world is facing an array of challenges, from the ongoing 
pandemic, to income inequality, to climate change.

Extreme weather events are becoming more frequent, the 
costs and challenges of which fall disproportionately on 
the developing world. The physical impacts of floods, 
droughts, heatwaves, and storms, combined with 
environmental degradation, threaten food, water, health, 
and energy security.

The World Economic Forum (WEF) Global Risks Report 
2022 identified climate action failure as the most severe 
risk on a global scale over the next 10 years. Ford’s 2022 
trend report showed that 81% of adults, globally, say 
climate change makes them concerned for their future. 
Yet, more than half of millennials and Gen Z-ers believe 
that by 2035 we’ll have the technology in place to reverse 
the effects of climate change.

Infrastructure is also top of mind, as we contend with 
supply chain disruptions, changes in consumer preference 
for safer modes of travel, and increasing emphasis on 
developing sustainable infrastructure. 

Technology trends, notably automation, artificial 
intelligence, digitalization of tasks and services, are 
dramatically improving efficiency and productivity but 
may pose higher cyber- and data-security risks. The 
adoption of these technologies will also continue to shift 
the employment landscape.

Social justice concerns also extend to the automotive 
industry. At a time when technology is transforming 
vehicles and how they are made and operated, workers 
from manufacturing through to customer service may 
need new skills and knowledge. This is a part of the Just 
Transition challenge.

A select number of governments supported the 
conditions for a Just Transition internationally at COP26. 
This includes ensuring environmental sustainability as 
well as decent work, social inclusion, and poverty 
eradication. The creation of new industries, new jobs, and 
new skills also gives us the opportunity to create more 
equal and resilient economies and communities. 

Our Comprehensive Response
The Paris Agreement calls for limiting the global 
temperature rise to well below 2°C above pre-industrial 
levels and working to limit the temperature increase to 
1.5°C above pre-industrial levels. 

Road transportation accounts for 18% of global carbon 
emissions.* Ford’s emissions, along with that of other 
automakers, are a part of road transportation. Ford 
focuses on reducing emissions from our vehicles, 
operations and supply chain which represent over 95% of 
our total emissions.

Our carbon neutrality goal is comprehensive. It includes 
less developed regions (which will progress at a slower 
pace than advanced economies), all our product 
segments (including larger commercial vehicles), and the 
fuels which power our vehicles. 

*https://www.iea.org/data-and-statistics/data-product/greenhouse-gas-emissions-from-
energy-highlights

7  |  TCFD Report 2022

2019 Global CO2 Emissions from Energy

   Electrical & heat 
production: 42%

   Other: 7%
   Manuf. industries and 
construction: 19%

   Transport (less road): 7%
   Road Transport: 18%
   Residential: 7%

Vehicles-tailpipe: 77%

Vehicles-energy 
production: 7%

Suppliers: 13%

Operations: 1%

Misc: 2%

2020 Ford CO2 Emissions

We are taking concrete steps to address the challenges 
outlined above and capture the opportunities they 
present as we reduce our emissions on the path towards 
carbon neutrality. 

Carbon Neutrality no later than 2050
We are committed to doing our part to reduce greenhouse 
gases and have set a path to achieving zero carbon 
emissions by balancing carbon emissions with carbon 
removal no later than 2050. Ford is the only full-line U.S. 
automaker to align with the Paris Agreement and to stand 
with the California Air Resources Board in support of 
stronger vehicle greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
standards. We support the UN Business Ambition for 
1.5°C, which calls on companies to commit to set science-
based targets aligned with limiting global temperature 
rise to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels, and the U.S. 
Nationally Determined Contribution to the Paris 
Agreement, which calls for an economy-wide approach to 
reducing greenhouse gas by 50-52% by 2030. We are 
cutting GHG emissions across the life cycle of our 
vehicles, driving energy efficiency and conservation in our 
facilities and manufacturing processes, and partnering 
with our suppliers to reduce their environmental impacts. 

As we work to achieve our goal we understand that we 
face significant challenges, including customer 
acceptance, government regulations, economic 
conditions, and the availability of renewable, carbon-
neutral electricity and renewable fuels. However, over the 
last year we have made significant progress:

• Vehicles: At COP26, we joined RouteZero, a global 

coalition of public and private sector leaders working 
towards 100% zero-emission cars and vans globally by 
2040, and in leading markets no later than 2035. 

 
   
   
   
   
Contents

Introduction

Our Climate-Related 
Risks and Opportunities

Our Strategic 
Response

Approach and  
Introduction to Scenarios

Ford’s Risk 
Management Approach

Metrics and Targets

TCFD Index 2022

Appendix

Introduction – continued

• Operations: Ford is the first automaker to join the Better 

Climate initiative by committing to reduce GHG 
emissions from our manufacturing facilities in the U.S. 
by 50% by 2030, in line with our global commitment to 
power our facilities with 100 percent carbon-free 
electricity by 2035.

• Suppliers: We are working with our suppliers to develop 
science-based emissions reduction targets in line with 
the Paris Agreement while providing resources to help 
them achieve these goals.

Why 2050
A cross-functional Ford team from the U.S., Europe, and 
China developed the company’s carbon-neutral approach 
after analyzing information on the environment, 
customers, technology, legislation, energy, competitive 
approaches, life-cycle assessments, and other trends.

Achieving global carbon neutrality no later than 2050 
demonstrates our commitment to the Paris Agreement. 
However, the challenge of reaching the 2050 goal for our 
industry and company should not be underestimated. 
Enormous changes will be required to decarbonize the 
global energy and transportation systems. It will take 
time to update infrastructure, for the technology to 
become affordable, and other obstacles to be addressed, 
which is why we expect the goal of carbon neutrality to be 
reached in different product segments and regions at 
different times. For example, we expect passenger 
vehicles to be carbon neutral before larger commercial 
vehicles with more demanding duty cycles. Given 
favorable policy, we expect the European Union and the 
U.S. Green (Section 177) States to be carbon neutral 
before the rest of the world. Our interim targets reflect 
these differences.

It is important to note that carbon neutrality can be 
achieved using emission reductions and carbon offsets. 
Our philosophy is to focus on emission reductions using 
minimal carbon offsets. We also recognize that to be 
successful, we need to collaborate with key stakeholders 
to advocate for many external factors including 
government policies, technical solutions, and a carbon 
neutral grid. Despite these challenges, we are actively 
looking for opportunities to accelerate our timing.

SBTi Targets
We have set interim science-based targets for our vehicle 
emissions (from a well-to-wheels perspective) and 
operations (which include Scope 1 and 2 emissions for 
manufacturing and non-manufacturing locations). Our 
approved 2035 science-based targets (from SBTi, the 
Science Based Targets initiative) are:

• 50% reduction in Scope 3 GHG emissions per vehicle 
kilometer from use of sold products by 2035 from a 
2019 base year

• 76% reduction in Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 2035 

from a 2017 base year

Our use of sold products (vehicle) target is consistent 
with the well below 2°C target* while our Scope 1 and 2 
target is aligned with a 1.5°C path.* We have also 
committed to reduce our global manufacturing Scope 1 
and 2 GHG emissions by 18% by 2023 from a 2017 base 
year. These targets do not include offsets and are strictly 
GHG reduction targets. The chart below shows our 
emissions path toward meeting our SBTi targets.

* Vehicle sector pathways for 1.5°C target setting have not yet been developed by SBTi.

8  |  TCFD Report 2022

CO2 Emission Reduction Plan

SBTi 
Targets 
Met

Carbon
Neutral

2019

2035

2050

Vehicles and Charging
Our transition to electrification is central to our carbon 
neutrality goal. We are committed to developing and 
manufacturing EVs that are sustainable, accessible, 
and affordable. 

A robust public charging infrastructure is essential for 
electric vehicles to be fully accepted by consumers and 
commercial customers. Actual charging capacity is just as 
important as the number of charge points. Our charging 
networks in North America and Europe help address this 
barrier. It will also be important to transform the grid 
quickly to renewable electricity.

Operations
We’re reimagining how EVs – and the batteries that 
power them – are designed, manufactured, and recycled, 
creating an all-new electric vehicle manufacturing 
ecosystem. In 2021, we announced plans to bring electric 
vehicles at scale to American customers by expanding 
production capacity at the Rouge Electric Vehicle Center 
and building two new massive, environmentally and 
technologically advanced campuses in Tennessee 
and Kentucky.

BlueOval City in Tennessee will become a vertically 
integrated ecosystem for Ford to assemble an expanded 
lineup of electric F-Series vehicles and will include a 
BlueOval SK battery plant, key suppliers, and recycling. 
Ford’s new Tennessee assembly plant is designed to 
be carbon neutral and send zero-waste to landfill once 
fully operational.

 
 
 
 
Contents

Introduction

Our Climate-Related 
Risks and Opportunities

Our Strategic 
Response

Approach and  
Introduction to Scenarios

Ford’s Risk 
Management Approach

Metrics and Targets

TCFD Index 2022

Appendix

Introduction – continued

Sustainable Supply Chains

With approximately 4,500 Tier 1 supplier sites around the 
world, it is a challenge to bring our complex supply chain 
along with us as we strengthen our global sustainability 
commitment. We are primarily focused on four areas: 
protecting and respecting human rights, protecting the 
environment, responsibly sourcing materials, and 
maintaining responsible business practices. Our Supplier 
Code of Conduct mandates that Tier 1 production 
suppliers minimize their impact on climate change, 
establish science-based targets, action plans, and 
transparent reporting mechanisms, and require their 
subcontractors to do the same. 

Just Transition 
An expectation of the Paris Agreement is to achieve 
a Just Transition as we move towards a low-carbon 
economy. A Just Transition should address the human 
rights implications of the decarbonization and energy 
transformation with attention on workers and 
communities that may need reskilling and upskilling, job 
creation, and responsible sourcing. Customers should 
also be considered in the Just Transition, such as by 
developing accessible and inclusive products (e.g. the 
availability and affordability of electric vehicles).

As Ford moves towards carbon neutrality, we are 
mindful of the impacts of the energy transition on our 
employees, our supply chain, our communities, and our 
customers. We are addressing and evolving our Just 
Transition strategy. 

à	

Read more about Ford’s Just Transition strategy  
in our Human Rights Report 

9  |  TCFD Report 2022

Sustainability Governance

Board of Directors
Sustainability, Innovation 
and Policy Committee

Executive Cabinet
Ford Leadership Team & CEO

VP, Chief Sustainability, 
Environment and Safety Officer

External Stakeholder 
Engagements
Sustainability Partnerships

Global Sustainability & ESG Meeting
Monthly Executive Officer Review 

Strategic Priorities, 
Objectives & Performance
Integrating Sustainability into all our Operations 

Mobility

Finance

Ford Land

Purchasing

Treasury

Communications

Global Manufacturing

Sustainability

Research & Innovation

Investor Relations

Global Data Analytics 
& Insights

Diversity, Equity & Inclusion

People Matters

Marketing

General Counsel

Environmental

Quality

Product Design & 
Development

Automotive Safety

Human Resources

Team Edison

Ford Credit

Ford Fund

Governance and Accountability
Our response to climate change is embedded across our 
business, with governance sitting at the highest level of 
our company, our Board of Directors.

Board Oversight
We employ a variety of governance systems and 
processes to manage different aspects of sustainability 
across our business. 

The newly named Sustainability, Innovation and Policy 
Committee, formerly the Sustainability and Innovation 
Committee, is responsible for reviewing and advising 
Ford’s pursuit of innovative policies and technologies that 
promote product safety, improve environmental and 
social sustainability, including human rights, working 
conditions, and responsible sourcing. The Committee’s 
focus reflects Ford’s increased emphasis on policy 
relating to all aspects of our business to achieve our 
sustainable goals and innovation pursuits.

The Committee discusses and advises management 
regarding the development of strategies, policies, and 
practices that assist the Company in addressing public 
sentiment and shaping policy in the areas of energy 
consumption, climate change, greenhouse gas and criteria 
pollutant emissions, waste disposal, and water use. 

The Committee reviews the Company’s Integrated 
Sustainability and Financial Report Summary as well 
as Company initiatives related to sustainability and 
innovation.

à	

Read more about the Charter of the Sustainability, Innovation 
and Policy Committee 

Management’s Role
We have a number of management processes, systems, 
committees, and groups in place that are designed to 
help us improve our sustainability performance, and act 
responsibly and ethically.

Contents

Introduction

Our Climate-Related 
Risks and Opportunities

Our Strategic 
Response

Approach and  
Introduction to Scenarios

Ford’s Risk 
Management Approach

Metrics and Targets

TCFD Index 2022

Appendix

Introduction – continued

Ford’s Vice President, Chief Sustainability, Environment 
and Safety Officer has primary responsibility for 
sustainability issues and oversees the Sustainability and 
Vehicle Environmental Matters group, the Environmental 
Quality Office, the Vehicle Homologation and Compliance 
group and the Automotive Safety Office. He leads a multi-
disciplinary senior-level team to oversee our actions in 
response to our climate change and sustainable mobility 
strategies. Other executives across functional areas also 
have responsibility for sustainability-related issues. 

The Sustainability and Vehicle Environmental Matters 
team coordinates our company-wide sustainability 
strategy and activities and leads our sustainability 
reporting and stakeholder engagement. They also 
collaborate with other functional areas and skill teams to 
integrate sustainability throughout the Company. 

The Vice President, Chief Sustainability, Environment and 
Safety Officer leads the Global Sustainability & ESG 
Meeting (GSM). This multidisciplinary executive-level 
team oversees actions in response to our sustainability 
strategies and integration and issues related to our We 
are Committed to Protecting Human Rights and the 
Environment Policy. The GSM approves our carbon 
neutrality strategy and monitors progress towards 
reducing CO2 through metrics for our fleet, suppliers, and 
manufacturing. We also track metrics for low-carbon 
policies in North America, Europe, and China.

The GSM is scheduled to meet monthly to provide 
strategic direction for compliance, govern vehicle 
environmental compliance policies and strategies, 
evaluate and report sustainability business environment 
and impact to Ford, approve and govern each functional 
team’s sustainability plan, long-term goals and metrics, 
and provide guidance and governance for key 
Sustainability & ESG trends that enable “Leadership.”

Public Policy and Engagement 
Addressing climate change is a global issue that no 
company, industry, country, or organization can achieve 
on its own. It requires collaboration to drive progress. We 
continue to work with partners in the public and private 
sectors to advance consistent market-driven policies 
(such as an effective carbon tax) supporting 
electrification, the EV charging infrastructure, the carbon 
neutral grid, and battery recycling.

Several policy approaches are underway to address 
climate change:

• At COP26 Ford joined RouteZero, a global coalition of 
governments and private industry working towards 
100% zero-emission cars and vans globally by 2040, 
and in leading markets no later than 2035.

• In the U.S., the Biden administration proposed legislation 
that included measures to increase adoption of electric 
vehicles in the U.S. In August 2021, Ford issued a joint 
statement with GM and Stellantis calling for “the timely 
deployment of the full suite of electrification policies… 
including purchase incentives, a comprehensive charging 
network of sufficient density to support the millions of 
vehicles these targets represent, investments in R&D, 
and incentives to expand the electric vehicle 
manufacturing and supply chains in the United States.” 

• The European Union (EU) Green Deal foresees a 55% 
cut in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, compared 
with 1990 levels, and a zero net emission target by 
2050. The legislative proposals target a wide range of 
areas, including the transport sector. The EU has 
proposed an effective ban on the sale of new petrol and 
diesel cars from 2035 and some European countries 
and cities are starting earlier. The move aims to 
accelerate the switch to zero-emission electric vehicles. 
Ford supports the objectives of the Green Deal. 

10  |  TCFD Report 2022

However, despite these advances, the policy approach 
has been fragmented. Aligned public policies are needed 
across the globe that help drive market requirements 
and support corporate financial sustainability through 
the transition. 

Ford is participating openly and transparently in the 
political process, supporting local, regional, national, and 
international policies that are economically, 
environmentally, and socially sustainable for our 
company, our customers and their communities. Ford 
advocates for positions which are: 

• Science-based

• Sustainable (i.e. address climate change and are 

aligned with the Paris Agreement)

• Market-based (e.g., carbon pricing)

• Performance-based and technology agnostic

• Harmonized

We are focused on issues including consistent policy 
toward electrification in all markets, an EV charging 
infrastructure, the carbon neutral grid, battery recycling 
polices, and an effective carbon tax.

At the same time, we are working to ensure that 
policymakers understand our commitment to reduce GHG 
emissions in our vehicles, our facilities, and our supply chain, 
and to expand our focus on electric vehicles – highlighting 
our $50 billion global investment in EVs through 2026. Our 
message to regulators at the federal and state level is to 
urge collaboration towards one common standard that 
ensures regulatory certainty for product planning.

Our new internal policy framework
Achieving our carbon neutrality aspiration requires a 
greater emphasis within the company on policy, and even 
greater engagement with policymakers and with those 
who influence policymaking processes. This is important 
given the number of unsettled public policy issues that 
are central to Ford’s success. To this end, a new policy 
framework – bringing organizational, procedural, and 
cultural change – will enhance Ford’s policy capabilities 
and best advance the company’s interests and values. 
This framework will leverage the existing capabilities 
across the Office of General Counsel, Government Affairs, 
and the Sustainability, Environment, and Safety 
Engineering offices, as well as the new Privacy office and 
provide a mechanism for these components to function 
as one team.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Contents

Introduction

Our Climate-Related 
Risks and Opportunities

Our Strategic 
Response

Approach and  
Introduction to Scenarios

Ford’s Risk 
Management Approach

Metrics and Targets

TCFD Index 2022

Appendix

Introduction – continued

Tracking policy development 
We track policy development in North America, the EU, 
and China to shape policies that support carbon 
neutrality. We support various policy measures which 
enhance market-driven adoption of lower/zero carbon 
transportation. Our policy ratings of a region are judgment 
calls based on progress toward their goals over the next 
seven years as well as a balance of supply and demand 
side drivers. We track the following policy categories:

• Demand Side Drivers: Carbon pricing, Incentives, HOV 

lanes, Free parking, Parking bans

• Supply Side Drivers

– Refueling Infrastructure: Electric Charging, Hydrogen, 

Low-Carbon Fuels

– OEM/Fuel Requirements: Fuel Economy Standards, 
OEM Sales Mandates, Low-Carbon Fuel Standard, 
ICE bans

– Carbon Neutral Grid

Ratings are made by a cross-functional, regional team 
which includes Government Affairs and are used to inform 
our policy approach. We believe that EU policies are on 
track to meet carbon neutrality but that in North America 
and China, additional policies are needed.

We continue to strive to improve our efforts in 
transparency to help build trust. Each year we publish 
a U.S. Political Engagement Report in an effort to be 
transparent about the principles that govern our 
participation in the political process, including the 
disclosure of the company’s membership in organizations 
that contribute to debates on policy issues. We are proud 
that Ford was rated as a trendsetter in political disclosure 
and accountability in the 2021 CPA-Zicklin Index of 
Corporate Political Disclosure.

à	

Read more in our US Political Engagement Report

11  |  TCFD Report 2022

We realize that we can’t do it 
alone – it will take collaboration to 
drive progress. That’s why we are 
sitting down with governments 
and NGOs around the globe, as 
well as partners in the public 
and private sector, to show our 
leadership and advocate for 
stronger policies. Partnerships 
like RouteZero can help build 
momentum and deliver solutions.”

Cynthia Williams, Ford’s Global Director of 
Sustainability, Homologation and Compliance,  
told NPR after the COP26 conference  
in November 2021.

Memberships and Associations
As a global company, it is critical that Ford uses its voice 
to help inform the policies affecting our employees, 
customers, and shareholders. Ford works with a broad 
range of coalitions, industry groups, and trade 
associations in the markets where we operate to leverage 
our resources effectively on key issues. These 
connections help the company exchange ideas and 
collaborate to develop and promote sensible policies that 
benefit our company, our industry, and society. These 
organizations often bring diverse viewpoints to the 
debate, and sometimes their views are not shared by 
Ford. We make our positions clear and when necessary, 
have taken an alternative path. 

American Automotive Policy Council 
The American Automotive Policy Council (AAPC), in 
coordination with Ford, GM, and Stellantis, is taking a 
comprehensive, all-inclusive approach to “going green.” 
Ford continues to promote alignment with U.S. standards 
in global export markets to ensure harmonization with 
fuel economy and safety initiatives. When an economy-
wide carbon pricing initiative gains traction, AAPC will 
advocate for inclusion of a carbon border adjustment that 
will encourage other countries to implement similar 
climate policies and level the playing field for U.S. 
manufacturers.

Climate Leadership Council
Ford joined the Climate Leadership Council (CLC) in 2019. 
The CLC is an international policy institute founded in 
collaboration with business, opinion and environmental 
leaders to promote a carbon fee and dividends framework 
as the most cost-effective, equitable, and politically viable 
climate solution. Ford is educating members of Congress 
on a growing group of businesses and NGOs working 
towards the meaningful solutions needed to achieve 
significant reductions in GHG emissions. 

CEO Climate Dialogue
Ford is the first automaker to join the CEO Climate 
Dialogue and looks forward to exchanging ideas as we 
work with lawmakers to shape climate policy. Ford 
continues to highlight the need for a comprehensive 
market-based solution. We believe this will be necessary 
to achieve reductions needed for net-zero carbon 
emissions by 2050.

Electric Drive Transportation Association
The Electric Drive Transportation Association (EDTA) is 
a trade association promoting electric drive technologies 
and infrastructure. EDTA is aligned with Ford on the need 
to accelerate the ICE to EV transition while extending/
expanding EV incentives including consumer tax credit, 
commercial incentives for EV, EV charging, investment 
tax credit for U.S. facilities for EV components like 
batteries. 

 
 
 
  
 
Contents

Introduction

Our Climate-Related 
Risks and Opportunities

Our Strategic 
Response

Approach and  
Introduction to Scenarios

Ford’s Risk 
Management Approach

Metrics and Targets

TCFD Index 2022

Appendix

Our Climate-Related Risks  
and Opportunities

Climate-Related Risks and their Impact 
on the Business Activity
We divide climate-related risks into two categories:

• Transition risks – those that arise from actions 
associated with the transition to a low-carbon 
economy, including the introduction of new climate 
policies or low-carbon technologies, and

• Physical risks – those that arise from the physical 

impacts of climate change.

Both categories are examined through short term  
(< 5 years), medium term (5 – 10 years), and long-term  
(> 10 years) timeframes. 

Timing of the major risks for leading markets currently in 
the transition to electrification cover the three examined 
timeframes and are listed below. We expect technology, 
market, and workforce risks to lessen in the long-term 
timeframe in leading markets as electrification becomes 
more widespread. Other markets will reach the 
electrification inflection point later, extending technology 
and market risks. The table is not a complete listing of the 
risks we considered but is an overview of major risks in 
the most pertinent categories.

Major Climate-Related Risks 

TRANSITION RISKS

Regulation

Technology

Ford is subject to emissions, fuel economy, zero emissions, and other regulations that govern product characteristics, and these can differ locally, regionally, and nationally. New regulations are 
continuously being proposed to address environmental concerns and the regulatory landscape can change quickly. To comply, we may need to substantially modify product plans.

If cost-effective and timely hardware and software solutions are not available to meet our CO2 reduction goals, we are subject to technology risk. As we make further CO2 reductions, it becomes 
more challenging to make cost-effective improvements. Technology may not be available to make the improvements at the rate required, and the carbon neutral grid and charging infrastructure 
may not keep pace with vehicle electrification which could negatively impact sales.

Financial

There is a potential that our carbon neutrality plan would need to be accelerated which would require increased investments.

Ford tied our Corporate and Supplemental Revolvers to three sustainability-linked KPIs such as reducing greenhouse gas emissions from the company’s manufacturing plants and lowering Ford of 
Europe’s CO2 tailpipe emissions per passenger vehicle. The applicable margin and facility fees may be adjusted if Ford fails to achieve, the specified targets.

Legal

Market

Non-compliance with requirements can lead to fines or sales restrictions.

Meeting our climate goals relies on wide market acceptance of electrified vehicles. There is a risk that our offerings do not meet sales volume expectations. Low market acceptance could be 
caused by low gas prices, changes required to fueling behavior, or by more product entries than are supported by demand. Excessive supply could lead to decreased revenue and profitability.

Reputation

Reputation risk is tied to other risks such as meeting product emission targets or sales volumes for environmentally friendly vehicles. Our reputation can suffer if we do not reduce vehicle CO2 in 
line with expected progress for climate stabilization, which could result in lower sales.

Resource Scarcity

As electrified products proliferate, there is a risk that scarce materials such as cobalt will increase in price slowing the growth of EV sales if an alternative to the material cannot be quickly found. 

Workforce

With the significant shift in capabilities needed to deliver the transition to electrification, there is a risk of lack of skilled workers and programs necessary to reskill the workforce.

PHYSICAL RISKS

Extreme weather

Climate change can lead to increased extreme weather events such as storms or floods that can disrupt production or component supplies, while droughts can affect our access to water for our 
operations, especially in water-scarce areas.

12  |  TCFD Report 2022

 
 
Contents

Introduction

Our Climate-Related 
Risks and Opportunities

Our Strategic 
Response

Approach and  
Introduction to Scenarios

Ford’s Risk 
Management Approach

Metrics and Targets

TCFD Index 2022

Appendix

Our Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities – continued

Climate-Related Opportunities  
for the Business 
At Ford we see opportunities across the time horizon 
for addressing climate-related issues. Timing of some 
major opportunities for leading markets is shown below. 
The opportunities related to adoption of electrification 
in lagging markets will occur later in the time horizon. 
The table is an overview of opportunities and is not a 
complete listing of what Ford is pursuing. 

Major Climate-Related Opportunities 

Product

Developing a portfolio of electrified vehicles for the transition away from the internal combustion engine is an 
opportunity for Ford. Our portfolio includes all-electric, plug-in hybrid, hybrid, and fuel-efficient internal combustion 
engines (e.g., EcoBoost). This portfolio provides Ford with the opportunity for growth and increased market share as 
the transition occurs. 

Financial

There is an opportunity to drive scale, vertical (battery) integration in manufacturing, and battery innovation to deliver 
cost efficiency and improved profitability. 

Ford tied our Corporate and Supplemental Revolvers to three sustainability-linked KPIs. The applicable margin and 
facility fees may be adjusted if Ford achieves the specified targets. 

Conserving  
Resources 

Reputation

We see several opportunities to conserve resources such as battery materials and energy, as well as improve business 
productivity. Our partnership with Redwood Materials will help localize the battery supply chain network and ramp up 
lithium-ion battery recycling in the U.S. We are reducing energy consumption in operations through efficiency projects 
which will reduce our energy costs. Ford Pro helps commercial vehicle owners improve fleet efficiency and uptime. 

An increasing number of consumers think it’s important for companies to take action on climate change. These 
consumers say they are willing to pay more for products that are better for the environment. Meeting customer 
expectations by delivering electrified products and solutions, an always-on relationship with customers, and an 
ever-improving user experience will strengthen our reputation and improve our bottom line. We believe Ford is well 
positioned to establish a “green” reputation with customers based on our electrification plans supplemented with 
improved customer experience and our broader sustainability efforts which include carbon neutral manufacturing and 
circular economy actions. 

Workforce

Electrification represents a revolution in the auto industry as it reshapes the future of work. We are mindful of the 
impacts on our employees, our supply chain, our communities and our customers. The creation of new industries, new 
jobs, and new skills gives us the opportunity to also create more equal and resilient economies and communities.

13  |  TCFD Report 2022

Contents

Introduction

Our Climate-Related 
Risks and Opportunities

Our Strategic 
Response

Approach and  
Introduction to Scenarios

Ford’s Risk 
Management Approach

Metrics and Targets

TCFD Index 2022

Appendix

Our Strategic Response 

Addressing climate change is an essential part of our commitment to help build a better world.  
Our response to climate risks and opportunities is centered on three areas that account for  
approximately 95% of our CO2 emissions – our products, our operations, and our supply chain. 

Electrification Plan 
Electrification is a key part of our plan to reach carbon 
neutrality no later than 2050 which includes: 

•  Providing a portfolio of electrified solutions as we 

transition to fully electrified vehicles. 

•  Electrifying our iconic vehicles beginning with the 

Mustang Mach-E, the F-150 Lightning, and the E-Transit. 
We expect fully electric vehicles to account for 50% of 
our global sales volume by 2030. 

•  Investing in sustainable manufacturing to create an 
efficient, carbon neutral manufacturing ecosystem. 

•  Accelerating R&D to remove obstacles to electrification 
– we have 2,500 patents in EV technology with another 
4,300 pending. 

•  Expanding charging networks. 

A Portfolio of Electrified Solutions 
We are accelerating electrification investments to ramp 
up production in North America, Europe, and China. At the 
same time, we are investing in battery development and 
deriving efficiencies from Ford’s flexible EV architecture 
and modular technologies. We understand what it takes 
to scale electric vehicle production quickly. We are 
focused on building a profitable electric vehicle portfolio 
at scale while building an ecosystem of highly desirable 
software and services around them. Our expansion of EV 
production capacity bodes well for the scenario where 
EVs are rapidly adopted. This scenario plays into Ford’s 
strength, the production of must-have, affordable 
vehicles for the masses. 

14  |  TCFD Report 2022

However, reducing vehicle carbon emissions is 
challenging. Over the past decade, consumer preferences 
have shifted away from cars towards trucks and SUVs, 
and fuel prices have fluctuated, remaining relatively low in 
some regions. As the transition to electrification occurs, 
our portfolio of electrified vehicles and improvements to 
internal combustion engine (ICE) technology provides 
resiliency to variations in the speed of the transition to 
electrification in various markets. 

We understand that for the foreseeable future, ICE vehicles 
will continue to play a role in most markets. Our technology 
migration plan is based on delivering high-quality vehicles 
that consumers desire while responding to the risks 
associated with climate change. As technologies and 
infrastructure develop and requirements become 
increasingly stringent, traditionally powered vehicles will be 
increasingly displaced by electrified options. Our technology 
migration plan includes providing hybrids, plug-in hybrids, 
and all-electric versions of our most popular vehicles based 
on customer needs and preferences. 

Hybrids and PHEVs 
Our PowerBoost™ Full Hybrid F-150 exemplifies our 
portfolio approach. This vehicle couples our 3.5L 
EcoBoost engine with hybrid technology to offer 
significant fuel savings along with enhanced capability, 
such as providing exportable power. Additionally, 
we’ve incorporated advanced full and plug-in hybrid 
systems in multiple vehicles globally, including our new 
Maverick hybrid truck, achieving EPA-estimated 42 
miles per gallon in the city* for under $20,000 in the 
U.S. In Europe, the Kuga is number 1 in its segment for 
all plug-in hybrid electric vehicles (PHEVs). 

*2.5L Hybrid powertrain. Actual mileage will vary.

Hybrid**

PHEV

EV 

Escape/ 
Kuga 
Explorer / 
Aviator 
Maverick 
F-150 
Mondeo 
Fiesta 
Focus 
Puma 
S-Max 
Galaxy 
Tourneo 
Custom 

Launched

Announced 
(upcoming) 

Mustang Mach-E 
E-Transit 

Escape/Kuga 
Corsair 
Explorer 
Aviator 
Tourneo 
Custom 

F-150 Lightning 
Explorer 
Lincoln SUV 
Puma 
Medium Sized 
Crossover 
Sport Crossover 
Transit Courier 
Tourneo Courier 
Transit Custom 
Tourneo Custom 

Additional unannounced vehicles are planned which are 
not shown. 

**Includes full and mild hybrid vehicles. 



Y
D
U
T
S
E
S
A
C

Bidirectional charging 
The F-150 hybrid and electric model both feature 
optional Pro-Power Onboard, a power back-
up system that transforms the vehicle into a 
generator that can supply enough power to run 
tools at your workplace or appliances on the go. 

The F-150 Lightning’s power source can even 
be used to power a home using Ford Intelligent 
Backup Power. Instead of installing a home 
generator or battery backup, the truck can be 
used to power a typical-size home up to three 
days in the event of a power outage.* 

“There are so many new opportunities to innovate 
with features and functions made possible only 
through electrification,” said Patrick Soderborg, 
Ford e-powertrain systems engineer. “This really 
hit home during the Texas power crisis in 2021, 
which left millions in the cold. F-150 Hybrid 
helped many Texans keep warm and powered up 
during those difficult times thanks to Pro Power 
Onboard – and we’re trying to do even more with  
F-150 Lightning.” 

And in August 2021, one happy couple in Michigan 
was able to keep their wedding reception going 
during a power outage. As Ford CEO Jim Farley 
tweeted, “Last weekend, there was a power 
outage during this couple’s wedding. Thankfully 
their friends – two @Ford employees – used 
their F-150 PowerBoost Hybrid with Pro Power 
Onboard to bring the party back to life! Love 
seeing the F-150 save the day.” 

*When home is properly equipped and home transfer switch disconnects 
home from the grid. Based on 30 kWh use per day using the F-150 Lightning 
with the extended-range battery. Your results may vary depending on energy 
usage. Rationing power assumes limiting the number of devices and turning 
the truck off when not needed.

 
 
Contents

Introduction

Our Climate-Related 
Risks and Opportunities

Our Strategic 
Response

Approach and  
Introduction to Scenarios

Ford’s Risk 
Management Approach

Metrics and Targets

TCFD Index 2022

Appendix

Our Strategic Response – continued

Electrifying our  
Iconic Vehicles 
For the transition to electrification  
to be successful, we must make 
electric vehicles that our customers 
want and demand. We are 
responding by electrifying our most 
popular vehicles with features that 
surprise and delight customers. 

The reception of these products 
gives us confidence that we are on 
track to achieve 50% fully electric 
vehicle sales globally, 100% fully 
electric passenger vehicle sales  
in Europe, and two-thirds all-electric 
or plug-in hybrid commercial vehicle 
sales in Europe by 2030. 

15  |  TCFD Report 2022

F-150 Lightning 

Mustang Mach-E 

E-Transit 

The F-150 Lightning is the smartest truck Ford has ever 
built. With customer reservations for the F-150 Lightning 
nearing 200,000, there is clear demand for an electric 
pickup truck. The Lightning is drawing interest from new 
customers at a record rate in North America, with more 
than 75% of reservation holders new to the Ford brand.* 
To meet high customer demand, Ford is planning to 
nearly double production capacity to 150,000 trucks by 
the end of 2023. 
•  EPA-estimated range of 320 miles on LARIAT and XLT 

with the available extended-range battery.** 

•  Models with extended-range batteries are targeted to 

go from 0-60 mph in the mid-4-second range.*** 

•  Mega Power Frunk – washable, lockable, and 400L. 

*As of Jan 4, 2022. 
**Excludes Platinum models. Based on full charge. USA EPA-targeted range reflecting current 
status based on analytical projection consistent with U.S. EPA combined drive cycle. Actual 
range varies with conditions such as external environment, vehicle use, vehicle maintenance, 
lithium-ion battery age, and state of health. Final EPA-estimated ratings available in 2022 
calendar year. 
***Targeted performance reflects current status based on analytical projections consistent 
with U.S. Automotive publication processes. Final performance times will be available in the 
2022 calendar year. 

The all-electric, Mustang Mach-E creates a unique driving 
experience while retaining the Mustang feel. Ford brought 
the Mustang Mach-E to life through a development 
process concentrated entirely on customer needs and 
desires. With strong consumer demand, we are tripling  
the production of the Mach-E and expect to reach more 
than 200,000 units per year by the end of 2023. 
•  EPA-estimated range of 314 miles for the CA Route 1 
Extended Range Model with extended-range battery 
and RWD.* 

•  GT Performance Edition 0-60 mph in 3.5 seconds.** 

•  Seamless connectivity. 

•  Ford Power-Up software updates. 

*Based on full charge. Actual range varies with conditions such as external environment, 
vehicle use, vehicle maintenance, lithium-ion battery age and state of health. 
**Ford test data based on typical industry methodology using 1-ft rollout. Your results 
may vary. 

The E-Transit is a smart workhorse providing customers 
cost and productivity improvements generated by a fully 
electric powertrain, software innovations and Pro Power 
Onboard options. Ford’s commercial vehicle ecosystem 
is expanding to include EV monitoring software and 
connectivity that seamlessly integrate electric fleets into 
day-to-day operations. Demand for the 2022 E-Transit 
has been strong with more than 300 customers placing 
orders for more than 10,000 vans. 
•   2022 Ford E-Transit Cargo Van Low Roof models have 

a targeted range of 126 miles.* 

•   Up to 487.3 cubic feet of cargo space.** 
•   8-year, 100,000-mile electric vehicle component 

warranty (whichever comes first). 

•   Lower maintenance requirements.*** 
•  Available Pro Power OnBoard provides 2.4W of power, 

enough to charge tools.****  

*Based on full charge. USA targeted range reflecting current capability based on analytical 
projection consistent with US EPA MCT drive cycle methodology. Actual range varies with 
conditions such as external elements, driving behaviors, vehicle maintenance, and lithium-ion 
battery age. **Cargo Van low-roof models. ***Scheduled maintenance costs for the E-Transit 
are estimated to be 40% lower than those of a gas-powered 2020 Transit. ****Like saws, 
drills, and jackhammers. 

 
Contents

Introduction

Our Climate-Related 
Risks and Opportunities

Our Strategic 
Response

Approach and  
Introduction to Scenarios

Ford’s Risk 
Management Approach

Metrics and Targets

TCFD Index 2022

Appendix

Our Strategic Response – continued



Y
D
U
T
S
E
S
A
C

Alliance to speed 
recharging time 
Ford researchers have successfully completed 
an early step in collaboration with Purdue 
University: we have invented a new, patent-
pending method for charging stations that 
could one day deliver significantly more power 
compared to today’s leading systems. 

Using liquid as an active cooling agent, the 
concept uniquely changes the liquid to vapor 
and could combine with in-development 
vehicle charging technology to lower the 
average time to recharge electric vehicles. This 
innovation could one day deliver significantly 
more power to charge electric vehicles than 
today’s leading systems, making possible 
faster re-charging times if vehicle charging 
and other technology enhancements are 
made in parallel. Ultimately, this could lead to 
re-charging EVs as quickly as conventional gas 
station fill-ups. 

We also will continue researching and 
developing hydrogen fuel cell technology, with 
a primary focus on medium and heavy-duty 
vehicles. Ford is partnering with the U.S. 
Department of Energy to develop and 
demonstrate five hydrogen fuel cell electric 
Class-5 Super Duty trucks. 

à 

Read more about Electrification, Batteries and 
Alternative Fuels in our Integrated Sustainability 
and Financial Report 

16  |  TCFD Report 2022

Investing In Sustainable Manufacturing 
Ford has electric vehicle manufacturing footprints across 
the world, including four plants in North America, as well 
as locations in Germany, Turkey, and China. 

Early in 2021 we announced a $1 billion investment in a 
new electric vehicle manufacturing center in Cologne 
with our first European-built, volume all-electric 
passenger vehicle for European customers scheduled to 
roll off the line in 2023. We also announced plans to bring 
electric vehicles at scale to American customers with two 
new campuses in Tennessee and Kentucky that will 
produce the next generation of electric F-Series trucks 
and the batteries to power future electric Ford and 
Lincoln vehicles. 

à 

Read more about BlueOval City on p.21 

After investing $7 billion in Michigan since 2016 and 
committing $700 million for the Rouge Electric Vehicle 
Center in 2020, we are investing an additional 
$250 million across the Rouge Electric Vehicle Center, Van 
Dyke Electric Powertrain Center and Rawsonville 
Components Plant to help increase production capacity 
of the F-150 Lightning to 150,000 trucks a year by the end 
of 2023. 

Accelerating R&D to Remove Obstacles 
To accelerate research and development of battery and 
battery cell technology, we announced the establishment 
of the Ford Ion Park global battery center in southeast 
Michigan. Here, state-of-the-art equipment will be used 
to pilot new manufacturing techniques that will help the 
company quickly test and scale battery cell designs with 
novel materials. 

We also recently increased our investment in Solid Power, 
an industry-leading producer of all-solid-state batteries 
for electric vehicles. Showing great promise, these 
batteries are designed to power longer-range, lower-cost 

and safer electric vehicles using existing lithium-ion 
battery manufacturing infrastructure. 

access and payment via FordPass** for a seamless retail 
customer experience. 

Expanding the Charging Network 
For consumers to adopt electric vehicles, it is critical that 
the public charging infrastructure grows substantially. 
Actual charging capacity is equally important as the 
number of charge points. We are helping to address this 
barrier through our BlueOval and IONITY charging 
networks. 

With more than 20,500 stations (over 70,000 plugs) and 
growing, Ford’s BlueOval Charge Network is the largest 
public charging network in North America offered by 
automotive manufacturing.* Built-in cloud-connected 
navigation routes customers to nearby charging stations, 
recommends where to charge on trips and provides easy 

In Europe, the BlueOval Charging Network has over 
250,000 charge points. Ford is also a founding member 
and shareholder in the IONITY consortium – which aims 
to offer high-power charging stations along major 
highways in Europe. The number of IONITY high-power 
charging points will more than quadruple to around 7,000 
by 2025. 

Ford is working with key stakeholders and government 
partners to accelerate deployment of the EV 
infrastructure needed to encourage consumer adoption. 

*Based on original equipment manufacturers (OEM)/automotive manufacturers that sell 
all-electric vehicles and have active charging networks. Department of Energy data used. 
**FordPass and Lincoln Way, compatible with select smartphone platforms, is available via 
a download. Message and data rates may apply.

 
 
Contents

Introduction

Our Climate-Related 
Risks and Opportunities

Our Strategic 
Response

Approach and  
Introduction to Scenarios

Ford’s Risk 
Management Approach

Metrics and Targets

TCFD Index 2022

Appendix

Our Strategic Response – continued

Despite these actions, sufficient growth of charging 
infrastructure remains a risk and a limiting factor on 
EV adoption. 

Advances in Engine and Transmission 
Technologies 
Recognizing that our customers are at different points along 
the path towards carbon neutrality, and will be transitioning 
at different times, we are continuing to improve the 
efficiency of our hybrid and internal combustion engine 
products as we electrify our nameplates and address the 
associated charging infrastructure. 

For the foreseeable future, vehicles with internal 
combustion engines will continue to play a role in  
most markets. So, we are continuing to make progress 
here as well. 

Gasoline Engines 
We are ensuring that our internal combustion engine (ICE) 
powertrains continue to provide a desirable balance of 
performance, fuel economy, and durability while meeting 
increasingly stringent criteria emissions requirements. 
Our EcoBoost engines are deployed across nearly 100% 
of the portfolio. 

Diesel Engines 
Modern diesel engines offer reduced CO2 emissions and 
fuel consumption, especially in commercial applications 
requiring heavy load and towing capability. They can 
achieve 20-30% better fuel economy than comparable 
gasoline engines in specific markets and segments, such 
as light commercial vehicles and heavy-duty vehicles. We 
continue to optimize these benefits in our EcoBlue and 
Powerstroke offerings. 

Advanced Transmissions and Drivelines 
We continue to optimize our transmissions by upgrading 
electronic controls to improve fuel economy and 

emissions. We have introduced a 7-speed automatic 
transmission for Ford Fiesta and Puma (including mild-
hybrid variants), while most Ford vehicles will continue to 
use the 8-speed automatic transmissions for front-
wheel-drive vehicles, and a 10-speed automatic for 
rear-wheel-drive vehicles. 

Alternative Fuels and Powertrains 
Alternative fuel vehicles enable our customers to reduce 
their carbon footprint during the transition to 
electrification. Our path toward a long-term carbon-
neutral portfolio will be powered by some combination of 
electricity, hydrogen, and hydrocarbon fuels from 
sustainable sources. 

Alternative fuel vehicles can reduce GHGs on a well-to-
wheels basis, which includes emissions from both 
producing and consuming the fuels. We offer our 
customers many vehicles that are capable of using 
reduced-GHG fuels. 

à 

Read more in our Integrated Sustainability and 
Financial Report 2022 

Enhancing Customer Experience 
Enhancing the customer experience is a key part of the 
transition to electric vehicles. Consequently, we are 
prioritizing connected, all-electric vehicles with distinctive 
services that help people more easily manage their 
lifestyles and businesses. From remote pick up and 
delivery, to over-the-air software updates, to our 
partnership with Google, we aim to give our customers 
ample reasons to make the switch to EVs. 

Ford built almost 1 million over-the-air (OTA) capable 
vehicles by the end of 2021 and we expect to scale that to 
more than 30 million by 2028. This capability (and 
connectivity more broadly) helps strengthen our always-
on relationship with customers through digitally enabled 
tools, online ordering, simplified financing and renewal 
options, vehicle pick-up and delivery services, and mobile 

17  |  TCFD Report 2022

repairs. In addition, Ford has created Ford Pro for 
commercial and government customers which provides a 
suite of solutions including EV consulting, charging, 
telematics, service, and financing. We believe this 
approach to provide an engaging customer experience 
will help ensure the success of our transition to electric 
vehicles. 

Ford and Google are reinventing the connected vehicle 
experience through a unique strategic partnership that 
will push the boundaries of Ford’s transformation, unlock 
personalized consumer experiences, and drive disruptive, 
data-driven opportunities. Ford has also named Google 
Cloud its preferred cloud provider to leverage Google’s 
world-class expertise in data, artificial intelligence (AI), 
and machine learning (ML). 



Y
D
U
T
S
E
S
A
C

Ford Pro: Redefining Value 
for Commercial Customers 
Ford Pro, a global vehicle services and distribution 
business, will help our commercial customers 
integrate all-electric E-Transit vans into their 
fleets. It will digitize and simplify transportation 
with capabilities spanning: 

•  Ford Pro Vehicles: Commercial trucks and vans, 

including gas, diesel, hybrid, and electric 
versions, with upfitting to meet the needs of 
almost any business – E-Transit is the latest 
example of Ford’s continuing commercial 
vehicle innovation. 

•  Ford Pro Charging: Integrated and end-to-end 
solutions for home, public, and depot charging 
for customers to make a seamless transition to 
electric vehicles. 

•  Ford Pro Software: Business productivity tools 

that link gas, diesel, and electric vehicles together 
to manage fleets holistically, on Ford or non-Ford 
vehicles, to improve uptime and cut costs. 

à  Read more about the customer experience in our Integrated 

•  Ford Pro Service: A network of commercial-

focused dealers across the country with uptime 
tools embedded like mobile service which 
reduces downtime by servicing customer needs 
where convenient for their business. 

•  Ford Pro Financing: Simplified financing, 
invoicing, and bundled solutions to make 
back-office management as hassle-free as 
possible.

Sustainability and Financial Report 2022 

Considering a Just Transition and 
Climate Justice 
We are addressing and evolving our Just Transition 
strategy. While transforming our business to electrification, 
Ford should consider our ability to reskill, upskill, and 
better develop our employees and invest in the 
communities where we live, work, and serve. We are 
introducing a new learning strategy to prepare Ford for 
today and into the future. The future of Ford will rely on 
the talent pipelines needed for the jobs of today – 
and tomorrow. 

Climate change is having a disproportionate effect on 
underserved and poor communities in the U.S. and 
around the world, underscoring the need for climate 
justice. To address this, we are democratizing electric 
vehicles beginning with our iconic nameplates: the 
Mustang Mach-E, the F-150 Lightning and the 
E-Transit van. 

 
 
Contents

Introduction

Our Climate-Related 
Risks and Opportunities

Our Strategic 
Response

Approach and  
Introduction to Scenarios

Ford’s Risk 
Management Approach

Metrics and Targets

TCFD Index 2022

Appendix

Our Strategic Response – continued

The topic of climate justice is important to us and part of 
our sustainability planning and commitments. We are: 

•  Increasing Vehicle Access – Ford is working to make 
zero-emission vehicles more affordable by offering 
equitable and non-discriminatory financing for products 
that serve underserved borrowers. 

•  Increasing Charging Access –We are working with 
partners to ensure EV charging is accessible in low 
income and disadvantaged communities, to ensure an 
electric lifestyle can be for everyone. 

Improving the Transportation Ecosystem 
Our vision for the future of urban mobility is a 
transportation ecosystem that helps improve how people 
get from point A to point B more seamlessly, deliveries to 
get people the goods they need, better parking, and traffic 
flow, while addressing such challenges as climate change 
and air pollution. We continue to collaborate directly with 
cities and other key stakeholders to help them solve their 
mobility issues and deliver our own mobility products and 
services to help make lives better. 

•  Developing new mobility solutions – In Detroit, we are 
restoring Michigan Central Station to create a new 
mobility innovation district in Detroit’s oldest 
neighborhood and launch new urban transportation 
solutions. 

Ford remains focused on large-scale deployment of 
autonomous vehicles as a service – ride-hailing to move 
people and delivery to move goods – across multiple U.S. 
cities starting in our launch city markets of Austin, Texas, 
Miami, and Washington, D.C. 

Supporting both a Just Transition and climate justice will 
take ongoing effort. We believe that our initiatives to 
create employment at BlueOval City, invest in job training 
and career readiness initiatives, introduce a new learning 
strategy at Ford, and lead the electric revolution at scale 
are steps in the right direction. Continued effort will be 
needed to increase electrified vehicle and charging access 
as well as to develop new mobility solutions. We are 
working towards to finding the solutions. 

à 

Read more about Ford’s Just Transition strategy in our  
Human Rights Report 

18  |  TCFD Report 2022

While we continue to improve the technology and build 
a robust self-driving system with our partner Argo AI, 
we have also made progress over the last year in bringing 
these services to life through our collaboration with Lyft 
and Walmart. Together with Lyft, Walmart and Argo AI, 
we are deploying autonomous vehicle demonstration 
projects in various cities to lay the groundwork for scaling 
operations. 

Read more about our work to improve the transportation 
ecosystem in our Integrated Sustainability and Financial 
Report. 

à 

Read more about Mobility and Autonomous Vehicles in our 
Integrated Sustainability and Financial Report 2022 

Migrating to Sustainable Materials 
We aspire to use only recycled or renewable content in 
vehicle plastics and have established an interim target 
of 20% renewable or recycled plastics in new vehicle 
designs for North America and Europe by 2025, and 10% 
in China and Turkey. 

Recycling plastics keeps waste out of landfills and 
decreases the consumption of natural resources and 
energy. We transform recycled plastic bottles into 
carpeting, underbody shields and wheel liners and use 
post-consumer nylon and polypropylene carpeting for 
cylinder head covers, fans and shrouds, cam covers, and 
carbon canisters. 

We are adding to our legacy of using sustainable materials 
in vehicles by being the first automaker to use 100% 
recycled ocean plastics to produce automotive parts. Wiring 
harness clips in Ford Bronco Sport models are made of 
ocean-harvested plastic from discarded fishing nets. 

Renewable, plant-based materials. Ford currently has 
launched a dozen industry-first, plant-based materials in 
production vehicles since 2007, establishing a reputation 
as a leader in this space. These robust materials are 
often lighter in weight, improving fuel economy. They 
also sequester carbon during the plants growing phase, 
reducing global warming impacts, and they require less 
energy to manufacture. Ford’s first sustainable materials 
include soy foam, wheat straw, rice hulls, tree-based 
cellulose, coconut fiber, and coffee chaff. 

For example, soy seat cushions, backs, and headrests have 
been used on every Ford North American built vehicle (over 
18.5 million vehicles) for more than a decade. Bio-based 
foams on Ford vehicles have collectively reduced 
greenhouse gas emissions by over 240 million pounds 
using over 730 billion soybeans, which also produces extra 
revenue for U.S. farmers. Soy foam reduces petroleum 
dependence by over 5 million pounds annually.

Contents

Introduction

Our Climate-Related 
Risks and Opportunities

Our Strategic 
Response

Approach and  
Introduction to Scenarios

Ford’s Risk 
Management Approach

Metrics and Targets

TCFD Index 2022

Appendix

Our Strategic Response – continued

These materials can be recycled and remanufactured in a 
closed-loop where Redwood produces anode copper foil 
and cathode active materials for future battery production. 
Using domestically produced battery materials from as 
much recycled content as available, will help ensure 
valuable materials in products re-enter the supply chain, 
reducing our reliance on the existing commodities supply 
chain and overseas component manufacturers that will be 
quickly overwhelmed by industry demand. 

Longer-term, Ford and Redwood plan to work together on 
the best approach to collect and disassemble end-of-life 
batteries from Ford’s electric vehicles for recycling and 
remanufacturing to help reduce the cost associated with 
battery components and raw materials to manufacture 
all-new batteries.

Transforming our own Operations 
We have worked extensively to ensure our facilities and 
those of our suppliers are resilient to severe weather 
conditions and water resource constraints. We’re also 
using energy more efficiently, increasing our use of power 
from renewable sources, reducing the GHG emissions 
from operations and making our transport more fuel 
efficient. As a result, we believe our operations are 
resilient to the effects of climate change in the short to 
medium term.

Energy Efficiency and Conservation 
Our energy efficiency and conservation efforts over the 
past decade have focused on improvements to lighting, 
compressed air, rotating equipment (fans, pumps, and 
motors), and heating systems. We’ve also improved 
processes and consolidated and/or closed plants to 
improve utilization of operations. In fact, we achieved our 
previous manufacturing GHG emissions target in 2017, 
eight years early. 

Our present manufacturing target is an 18% absolute 
reduction in GHG emissions by 2023. To achieve this, 
we are focused on securing a local carbon-free energy 
supply for our manufacturing plants, making these 
facilities even more efficient, and leveraging data to drive 
decisions. (See Carbon-Free Electricity and Energy 
Section on next page.)

We report our global Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions, 
participate in emissions trading schemes such as the EU 
European Trading Scheme (EU ETS), and adhere to a 
number of carbon reduction initiatives in the United 
States, Europe, Mexico, Canada, and other countries.

As we move ahead, we are driving energy efficiency 
throughout our global operations and procuring local 
carbon-free electricity to achieve our 2035 SBTi target of 
76% GHG reduction which includes both our 
manufacturing and non-manufacturing locations. We’re 
incorporating energy efficient best practices as we build 
new offices. Our Research and Engineering and Corktown 
campuses will achieve an Energy Utilization Intensity that 
is 50% better than historical Ford office spaces. And in 
Dearborn, the new Research and Engineering Center 
under construction is designed to be carbon neutral when 
it is occupied in 2025.

Funds from our Sustainable Financing Framework will 
help further reduce the environmental footprint of our 
operations through local carbon-free electricity, 
sustainable water and wastewater management, waste 
management, and energy efficient buildings. (See 
Sustainable Financing Framework section below.)

à 

Read more in our Integrated Sustainability and Financial 
Report 2022

Ford was also the first in the industry to launch wheat 
straw storage bins, rice hull filled electrical wiring covers, 
and tree-based cellulose composite armrest substrates 
and console substrates. 

Through a partnership with McDonald’s USA we have 
incorporated coffee chaff — the dried skin of the coffee 
bean – to reinforce headlamp housings. Our goal is to 
migrate these sustainable materials to other vehicles and 
applications.

Aluminum. Ford recovers up to 20 million pounds of 
high-strength, military-grade aluminum alloy per month 
through our aluminum recycling program. In fact, Ford is 
the largest automotive closed-loop aluminum recycler in 
the world. Recycled aluminum avoids 95% of the GHG 
emissions associated with primary aluminum production 
and uses significantly less energy and water.

19  |  TCFD Report 2022

Through our closed-loop recycling system, Ford 
minimizes the need for primary metal. We worked closely 
with our aluminum sheet suppliers to create unique alloys 
specifically for closed-loop recycling. The system 
recovers aluminum scrap during parts stamping but 
keeps the various aluminum alloys separated so they can 
be recycled back into fresh alloy for new vehicles. 

Batteries. We are collaborating with Redwood Materials 
to integrate battery recycling into our domestic battery 
strategy. Redwood’s recycling technology can recover, on 
average, more than 95% of strategic materials such as 
nickel, cobalt, lithium, and copper. 

Contents

Introduction

Our Climate-Related 
Risks and Opportunities

Our Strategic 
Response

Approach and  
Introduction to Scenarios

Ford’s Risk 
Management Approach

Metrics and Targets

TCFD Index 2022

Appendix

Our Strategic Response – continued

Local Carbon-Free Electricity and Energy 
Our goal of achieving 100 percent local carbon-free 
electricity in all manufacturing by 2035 will be bolstered 
by potential dedicated investments in wind, solar, 
geothermal, hydropower, and biomass. 

We are committed to reducing the effects of our 
operations and supply chains. In addition to developing 
world-class facilities, sourcing 100 percent local carbon-
free electricity for our global operations by 2035 is a key 
strategy to help us achieve this goal.

To replace fossil-based generation, we’ll be procuring a 
mix of wind, solar power, nuclear, geothermal, biomass, 
energy storage, and hydro. One strategy is to secure 
carbon-free electricity locally through relationships with 
local utilities, power producers, and independent project 
developers. And we’re already making progress. 

All manufacturing facilities in Ohio, New York, and Mexico 
will be sourced with 100 percent carbon-free electricity by 
2022 year end. All manufacturing and large commercial 
facilities in Michigan are expected to be sourced with 
100 percent carbon-free electricity by 2025. Not only does 
this reduce our emissions, but it also creates jobs, 
improves air quality, and adds resiliency to the local grid. 

Sustainability-linked performance metrics include 
increasing the percentage of renewable electricity 
consumed in Ford’s global manufacturing plants.

Reducing GHG emissions from the Company’s 
manufacturing plants is one of the sustainability-linked 
performance metrics aligning our financing actions with 
our commitment to operate a safe, sustainable, and 
successful business.

Global Effort 
We expect that Europe will be among the first global 
regions to become carbon neutral. Ford is already using 
100 percent carbon-free electricity to power: Dunton and 
Daventry in the UK, the Craiova plant in Romania and all 
facilities in Cologne, Germany including the vehicle 
assembly and engine plants, as well as the Research 
Center in Merkenich. 

We’re modernizing plants in South Africa and Thailand to 
improve energy efficiency. In Thailand we’re making 
significant efforts to support environmentally friendly 
initiatives, including using renewable energy, reducing CO2 
emissions, and practicing zero waste to landfill. Our 
Silverton plant in South Africa will have a new robotic 
body shop and a new high-tech stamping plant on-site 
for the first time, modernizing and streamlining the 
integrated manufacturing process while contributing to 
higher quality and reducing overall cost and waste. 

And Ford manufacturing facilities in China have reduced 
VOC emissions by more than 600 tons per year since 2015 
through various management and engineering 
investment measures, contributing to cleaner air. In 
Argentina, our Pacheco plant achieved more than 40% of 
renewable electrical energy consumption and recycled 
93% of total waste generated as of November 2021. It is 
reducing kWh usage in compressed air generation from 
36% to 25% and completing energy meter installation in 
all manufacturing facilities.

20  |  TCFD Report 2022

Rooftop Solar Array 
In Michigan, DTE Energy, the state’s largest producer of 
renewable energy has commissioned a new rooftop solar 
array at a parking garage at Ford Research & Engineering 
Center in Dearborn. The 2,159-panel array includes an 
integrated battery storage system and will be used to 
power newly installed electric vehicle (EV) chargers. The 
solar array can generate 1,127 megawatt hours of clean 
energy, avoiding 880 tons of CO2, which has the 
environmental benefit equal to the carbon sequestered 
by nearly 980 acres of U.S. forests in one year.

The new solar array is just one of several steps both 
companies are taking to reduce carbon emissions. In 2019, 
Ford became the first corporate customer to enroll in 
DTE’s MIGreenPower voluntary renewable energy 
program. Through the program, Ford is purchasing 
525,000 megawatt hours annually of Michigan wind 
energy from DTE’s Isabella and Fairbanks wind parks.

This is our moment – our biggest 
investment ever – to help  
build a better future for America. 
We are moving now to deliver 
breakthrough electric vehicles 
for the many rather than the few. 
It’s about creating good jobs that 
support American families, an 
ultra-efficient, carbon-neutral 
manufacturing system, and a 
growing business that delivers 
value for communities, dealers, 
and shareholders.”

Jim Farley, Ford president and CEO

Contents

Introduction

Our Climate-Related 
Risks and Opportunities

Our Strategic 
Response

Approach and  
Introduction to Scenarios

Ford’s Risk 
Management Approach

Metrics and Targets

TCFD Index 2022

Appendix

Our Strategic Response – continued



Y
D
U
T
S
E
S
A
C

Responding to risks of extreme weather on our 
operations
Extreme weather events can disrupt production or 
component supplies, while droughts can affect our 
access to water for our operations. We have worked with 
S&P Global Trucost to analyze the exposure of over 70 of 
our manufacturing and non-manufacturing sites across 17 
countries to the physical impacts of climate change. The 
most significant risk for Ford from the analysis is water 
stress, with Ford plants in India, China, South Africa, and 
Mexico among those identified most affected. Flooding, 
hurricanes and typhoons are also high risks for some sites 
in Asia. 

Every year, we assess business continuity and resumption 
plans for our facilities and suppliers as a part of our risk 
management process. Business continuity plans include 
climate-related risks to our facilities, such as shifting 
patterns of extreme weather. We have taken actions to 
reduce these risks, including risks to the energy supplies 
we need to operate our manufacturing facilities. 

Additionally, Ford has acted to reduce water 
consumption, focusing on freshwater use by facilities in 
water stressed areas. Our goal is to minimize the use of 
freshwater while aiming for a goal of zero impact on 
freshwater sources in the future. 

21  |  TCFD Report 2022

BlueOval City
Ford is creating an all-new electric vehicle 
manufacturing ecosystem that reimagines how 
electric vehicles – and the batteries that power 
them – are designed, manufactured, and recycled.

The all-new mega campus in Stanton, Tennessee, 
called BlueOval City, will be among the largest 
auto manufacturing campuses in U.S. history. Like 
the iconic Rouge complex in Michigan did a century 
earlier, BlueOval City will usher in a new era for 
American manufacturing.

BlueOval City will be a hive of technical innovation 
to build next-generation electric F-Series trucks. 
This growth opportunity will allow Ford to reach 
new customers with an expanded electric truck 
lineup.

The 3,600-acre campus covering nearly 6 square 
miles will encompass vehicle assembly, battery 
production, and a supplier park in a vertically 
integrated system that delivers cost efficiency while 
minimizing the carbon footprint of the 
manufacturing process. The assembly plant will use 
always-on cloud-connected technologies to drive 
vast improvements in quality and productivity. The 
mega campus is designed to add more 
sustainability solutions, including the potential to 
use local renewable energy sources such as 
geothermal, solar, and wind power.

BlueOval City is designed to achieve carbon 
neutrality, send zero waste to landfill, and use 
freshwater for human consumption only once fully 
operational.

Together with the BlueOval SK battery plants in Kentucky, 
BlueOval City will enable 129 gigawatt hours a year of U.S. 
production capacity for Ford. 

Battery Recycling: Ford is collaborating with Redwood 
Materials, a leading battery materials company, to make 
electric vehicles more sustainable and affordable for 
Americans by localizing the supply chain network, creating 
recycling options for scrap and end-of-life vehicles, and 
ramping up lithium-ion recycling. Ford believes battery 
recycling is essential for the success of an electrified future 
and has the potential to offer significant economic benefits 
as it closes the battery recycling loop at BlueOval City.

Next-Generation Workforce: Together BlueOval 
City and the battery plants in Tennessee will create 
approximately 11,000 jobs. In addition, Ford is investing 
$90 million in Texas alone as part of a $525 million 
total investment across the U.S. during the next five 
years to transform America’s auto technician industry. 
The investment will go toward job training and career 
readiness initiatives for the current and next generation 
of technicians. 

These programs aim to develop highly skilled 
technicians and will support Ford’s growing portfolio 
of connected electric vehicles as we work towards a 
Just Transition.

 
Contents

Introduction

Our Climate-Related 
Risks and Opportunities

Our Strategic 
Response

Approach and  
Introduction to Scenarios

Ford’s Risk 
Management Approach

Metrics and Targets

TCFD Index 2022

Appendix

Our Strategic Response – continued

Decarbonization of the Supply Chain

Building Supplier Capability 
We actively work with our suppliers to reduce their carbon 
emissions, energy consumption, water, use and waste.

Our new Supplier Code of Conduct mandates that all Tier 
1 production suppliers minimize their impact on climate 
change aligned with the United Nations Framework 
Convention on Climate Change (Paris Agreement), 
striving towards carbon neutrality. It also requires that our 
suppliers enforce a similar code of practice and require 
that their subcontractors do the same. Supplier Code of 
Conduct requires suppliers to: 

•  Report their Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions and water usage 

data to Ford if requested.

•  Establish science-based GHG reduction targets, action 

plans, and transparent reporting mechanisms.

In 2021, we conducted a supplier survey to identify our 
high-impact suppliers’ GHG reduction targets, and we will 
continue to survey the rest of our suppliers in 2022. If 
suppliers do not yet have targets set, they are required to 
submit them by the end of 2022. Then we can develop a 
joint roadmap with our suppliers on our journey towards 
carbon neutrality. 

We have also established internal targets for increasing 
engagement with our supply chain partners, including 
building on our successful CDP Supply Chain reporting 
program and our Partnership for A Cleaner Environment 
(PACE) programs.

In an accelerated transition to electrified vehicles, material 
and battery supply chains represent a risk. The increasing 
demand for raw materials for batteries is a fundamental 
issue that must be addressed to support the transition to 
electric vehicles. The Ford policy team is working to secure 
supply chains to support electric vehicle production. As 
noted above, we are also collaborating with Redwood 
Materials to make electric vehicles more sustainable and 
affordable by localizing the supply chain network, creating 

22  |  TCFD Report 2022

Winning businesses are 
financially healthy and  
lead in sustainability –  
it’s not a choice, they rely  
on each other.” 

Ford CFO John Lawler

recycling options for scrap and end-of-life vehicles, and 
ramping up lithium-ion recycling.

Helping our suppliers build a better world 
We rely on thousands of suppliers to provide materials, 
components and services for our vehicles. By sharing 
what has worked well at Ford, we can help them cut 
costs, improve quality, and become more sustainable. We 
engage with our supply chain to understand our collective 
environmental footprint and work with selected suppliers 
through target setting and cascading best practices to 
reduce their carbon emissions, energy consumption, 
water use, and waste.

By sharing successful initiatives with nearly 80 key 
suppliers through our PACE program, we are cascading 
best practices through our supply chain. So far, our 

suppliers have implemented projects in at least 13 
countries: United States, Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China, 
Czech Republic, Germany, India, Mexico, Poland, Serbia, 
South Africa, and Thailand. FastPACE, a streamlined 
version of PACE, is helping reduce the impact of key 
partners in China, India, Thailand, and South Africa. 
Supplier participation has increased from 2020 to 2021 by 
over 60%. As a result, PACE and FastPACE suppliers are 
on track to save an estimated 17,652 metric tons of CO2 
and 17.7 million gallons of water over the next three years.

Responsible Materials Council
Ford launched the Responsible Materials Council 
(RMC) in 2021 to focus on integrating materials with 
reduced embedded carbon, recycled materials, and 
responsibly sourced raw materials in our vehicles. 
In addition to supporting our aspiration to become 
carbon neutral by 2050, the RMC aims to help Ford 
comply with growing global legislative requirements 
and align us with global leaders. It will also reduce 
reputational risk in our supply chain and help us meet 
stakeholder expectations including fleet customers, 
ESG investors, and NGOs. 

Led by the Supply Chain Sustainability Responsible 
Materials Sourcing team, the RMC brings together  
key members of the Purchasing and Product 
Development teams. 

à 

Read more on our supplier programs in our Human Rights 
Report 2022

Sustainable Financing
Our commitment to clean transportation and 
manufacturing requires investment, which is why we have 
established a holistic Ford and Ford Credit Sustainable 
Financing Framework – the first fully integrated 
framework of its kind covering both an automotive 
manufacturer and its captive finance company.

Contents

Introduction

Our Climate-Related 
Risks and Opportunities

Our Strategic 
Response

Approach and  
Introduction to Scenarios

Ford’s Risk 
Management Approach

Metrics and Targets

TCFD Index 2022

Appendix

Our Strategic Response – continued

company’s financing actions with its commitment to 
operate a safe, sustainable, and successful business – 
elements that are fundamental to the Ford+ plan for 
growth and value creation. 

Specifically, the groundbreaking arrangement comprises 
extensions of three revolving credit lines: a five-year, 
$10.1 billion facility maturing in September 2026, along 
with a three-year, $3.4 billion facility and a three-year, 
$2.0 billion supplemental facility, both maturing in 
September 2024. 

The facility renewals are distinguished by their inclusion 
of well-rounded measures demonstrating how Ford’s 
environmental, social, and corporate governance, or ESG, 
initiatives are integrated throughout its business – 
including how the company is leading the electric vehicle 
revolution. 

Sustainability-linked performance metrics reflecting 
Ford’s actions and progress toward fighting climate 
change include: 

•  Reducing GHG emissions from the company’s 

manufacturing plants, in line with the Paris Agreement’s 
long-term temperature goal of limiting global warming 
and a 1.5-degrees Celsius path 

•  Increasing the percentage of renewable electricity 

consumed in Ford’s global manufacturing plants, and 

•  Lowering Ford of Europe’s CO2 tailpipe emissions for the 
passenger vehicle fleet consistent with Ford’s carbon 
neutrality goal.

Together, the Sustainable Financing Framework, green 
bond, and revolvers will help power our mission of 
revolutionizing the power of mobility and accelerate our 
journey to becoming carbon neutral no later than 2050. 

Ford has implemented robust processes to monitor 
performance to our key metrics associated with the 
sustainable financing framework and revolving credit lines.

The framework, which was announced on the fifth 
anniversary of the Paris Agreement, guides how we 
obtain financing for environmental and social projects in 
four key areas: clean transportation, clean manufacturing, 
making lives better, and community revitalization.

The first transaction under the framework was Ford’s 
inaugural green bond in November 2021 that raised 
$2.5 billion. The net proceeds from the 10-year green 
bond, another first for a North American OEM, will be 
allocated to our new portfolio of electric vehicles, 
including the Mustang Mach-E, F-150 Lightning, and 
E-Transit.

Guided by aggressive environmental and social goals, 
a significant portion of related financing will go toward 
accelerating Ford’s leadership in electric vehicles and to 
drive investment in disadvantaged and underserved 
communities. Objectives include expanding EV 
technology and charging infrastructure to remove 
obstacles to adoption and improve the customer 

experience, and EV and battery manufacturing to reduce 
emissions. Net proceeds from sustainable financing will 
be invested and expended as follows:

Clean Transportation includes designing, developing, and 
manufacturing zero-emissions transportation, focusing on 
electric vehicles and the batteries that power them across 
the full range of design, development, manufacturing, and 
end-of-life. Examples include our announcement of the 
largest U.S. investment in electric vehicles at one time by 
an automotive manufacturer, together with SK Innovation, 
in our new Tennessee and Kentucky mega-sites; our 
collaboration with Redwood Materials on recycling options 
for scrap and end-of-life EVs and lithium-ion batteries; 
and offering financing products and wholesale loans to 
establish or improve the EV charging infrastructure.

Clean Manufacturing includes further reducing the 
environmental footprint of Ford’s operations through 
renewable energy, sustainable water and wastewater 
management, waste management, and energy-efficient 

buildings. As examples, Ford’s new advanced campuses 
in Tennessee and Kentucky will be designed to have 
as minimal an impact as possible on the surrounding 
environment.

Investments will also be made to help make lives better 
and revitalize communities. 

The Sustainable Financing Framework will support Ford’s 
progress in developing and manufacturing EVs and the 
batteries that power them in ways that are positive for the 
environment as well as enhancing the health and mobility 
of our neighbors by making EVs more accessible and 
more affordable. Together Ford will generate growth 
that’s sustained and sustainable, driving the electric 
revolution forward, helping every person to move and 
pursue their dreams. 

$15.5 Billion Credit Facilities
We’ve also extended $15.5 billion in revolving credit lines, 
which now include key metrics that further align the 

23  |  TCFD Report 2022

Contents

Introduction

Our Climate-Related 
Risks and Opportunities

Our Strategic 
Response

Approach and  
Introduction to Scenarios

Ford’s Risk 
Management Approach

Metrics and Targets

TCFD Index 2022

Appendix

Approach and Introduction to Scenarios

Our Approach to Scenario Analysis
Scenario planning defines possible future environments 
companies might face over a set time period. By engaging 
in scenario analysis, we explore a wide range of economic, 
regulatory, technological, and societal conditions, and 
consider how Ford’s businesses and strategies might fare 
under varying operating environments. 

During the timeframe of our analysis, 2030 to 2040, the 
temperature rise variation between the scenarios is less 
severe than in 2100. As such, we only use the two extreme 
scenarios as they “bookend” what is expected in the 2030 
to 2040 time frame, which makes them best suited to 
test the resiliency of our strategies. The two scenarios are 
described below.

•  Stated Policies Scenario (STEPS) does not take for 
granted that governments will reach all announced 
goals. Instead, it explores where the energy system 
might go without additional policy implementation.

•  Net Zero Emissions by 2050 Scenario (NZE) shows the 
global energy sector achieving net zero CO2 emissions 
by 2050, with advanced economies reaching net zero 
emissions ahead of others.

For our 2019 climate change scenario report, we had 
developed our own, unique scenarios which we also 
reference in our 2020 report. The alignment of these 
scenarios with WEO scenarios is shown in the Appendix.

Common Assumptions  
for WEO Scenarios*
The following assumptions are common between STEPS 
and NZE:

•  The global economy is assumed to grow by ~ 3% per 
year on average over the period to 2050, with large 
variations by region and over time. 

•  Over the longer term, emerging market and developing 
economies are the main drivers of an expanding global 
economy.

•  The global population is assumed to rise from just 

WEO Scenarios Global Median Surface Temperatures

Time frame under
consideration

3

1.5

0

Stated Policies Scenario

Net Zero Scenario

2000

2010

2020

2030

2040

2050

2060

2070

2080

2090

2100

Aside from the economic implications, older 
populations have higher residential energy consumption 
offset by a lower propensity to travel.

• Urbanization is a key driver. Some 56% of the global 
population lived in cities and towns in 2020, and they 
accounted for two-thirds of global energy consumption 
and over 70% of CO2 emissions. The share of the global 
population living in towns and cities is expected to rise 
to almost 70% in 2050. 

• Technologies across the energy sector get progressively 

cheaper over time. The pace at which this happens 
varies by scenario as cost reductions are linked to 
cumulative deployment: the more a technology is 
deployed, the larger the assumed reductions in costs. 
Policies play a crucial role in this process, particularly in 
determining how quickly new, innovative clean 
technologies are scaled up.

*Excerpts from “International Energy Agency | World Energy Outlook 2021”, pp. 96-105

2030 – 2040 Scenario Comparison Overview

Net Zero Emissions Scenario (NZE)

Stated Policies Scenario (STEPS)

Temperature increase

~1.5°C

~1.7°C

Policy

Global policy implemented to limit temp. rise to 1.5°C

Today’s policies with no changes

under 8 billion today to 8.5 billion in 2030 and 9.7 billion 
in 2050, an increase of just over 25% in 30 years. 

Technology

CO2 pricing rises rapidly in all regions

High policy support & collaboration 
Speed of scaling unprecedented

Existing & planned CO2 pricing

Evolutionary growth

•  A rising share of older people in the global population is 
an increasingly important demographic trend. This has 
not been a major issue at the global level. However, it is 
already a noticeable trend in high income countries. 

Energy Prices in 2030s Oil averages $35/bbl +50% wind/solar supply

Oil averages $90/bbl +20% wind/solar supply

% EVs in 2030

Environment

Economy

Higher EV adoption across markets

Lower EV adoption in advanced economies

Less severe weather events

3% average annual growth

Increasingly severe weather events

3% growth slows due to high rebuilding costs

We recognize that individual countries’ efforts to mitigate 
climate change and unexpected technological innovations 
introduce additional uncertainty into the range of outcomes 
for regulations and consumer behaviors. Because of today’s 
uncertain context, we do not assign probabilities to 
scenarios nor plan to a probable scenario; rather, we 
examine the resilience of our strategies to differing futures 
and adjust accordingly. Therefore, these scenarios are not 
predictions of the future and do not represent forecasts.

Introduction to the Scenarios
We are at the start of a profound change toward a 
decarbonized transportation system. It will take time to 
update infrastructure, for technologies to become 
affordable, and other obstacles to be addressed. We expect 
carbon neutrality will be reached in different product 
segments and regions at different times. Passenger vehicles 
will be carbon neutral before larger commercial vehicles, 
and advanced economies with progressive policies will be 
carbon neutral before the rest of the world. Our scenario 
analysis covers the 2030 to 2040 period as decarbonization 
of our sector will be well underway during this time and it is 
not so far in the future to be completely speculative.

We use the International Energy Agency (IEA) World Energy 
Outlook (WEO) scenarios as the IEA is an authoritative 
source for global energy projections. WEO scenarios provide 
insight into energy supply and demand with implications for 
climate targets and economic development. Of the four 
WEO scenarios, we use the Stated Policies Scenario and the 
Net Zero Scenario shown in the graph opposite. 

24  |  TCFD Report 2022

 
 
Contents

Introduction

Our Climate-Related 
Risks and Opportunities

Our Strategic 
Response

Approach and  
Introduction to Scenarios

Ford’s Risk 
Management Approach

Metrics and Targets

TCFD Index 2022

Appendix

Approach and Introduction to Scenarios – continued

The Net Zero Emissions by 2050 Scenario (NZE)** 
This is a normative IEA scenario that shows a narrow but 
achievable pathway for the global energy sector to 
achieve net zero CO2 emissions by 2050, with advanced 
economies reaching net zero emissions in advance of 
others. This scenario also meets key energy-related 
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), 
in particular by achieving universal energy. The NZE does 
not rely on emissions reductions from outside the energy 
sector to achieve its goals, but assumes that non-energy 
emissions will be reduced in the same proportion as 
energy emissions. It is consistent with limiting the global 
temperature rise to 1.5 °C without a temperature 
overshoot (with a 50% probability).

The Stated Policies Scenario (STEPS)
The Stated Policies Scenario (STEPS) provides a more 
conservative benchmark for the future, because it does 
not take it for granted that governments will reach all 
announced goals. Instead, it takes a more granular, 
sector-by-sector look at what has actually been put in 
place to reach these and other energy-related objectives, 
taking account not just of existing policies and measures 
but also of those that are under development... The 
STEPS explores where the energy system might go 
without a major additional steer from policy makers.

**International Energy Agency | World Energy Outlook 2021, pp. 94-95

Methodologies and Assumptions
Ford aspires to reach carbon neutrality no later than 
2050 for vehicles, operations, and suppliers. We 
recognize that individual country efforts to mitigate 
climate change introduce uncertainty in regulations as 
well as consumer behaviors. To better understand the 
impact of these uncertainties, a team of experts 
evaluated our corporate strategies assessing our 
resilience to each scenario. The team reviewed the 
scenario assumptions, brainstormed scenario 
implications to industry and Ford, and considered 
whether our announced strategies and investments 
are resilient to future business environments. 

In the scenarios we considered, urbanization will be an 
important feature of the new automotive landscape, 
and therefore we expect future urban environment 
trends will be a major determinant of consumer vehicle 
choice. How urbanization presents itself may differ 
between the scenarios. 

Scenario analysis highlights that, while consumer 
preferences and technology choices are changing, there 
is uncertainty associated with the pace of uptake of 
new technologies such as all-electric and autonomous 
vehicles. One critical take-away from this future 
scenario deep dive is that Ford must position itself to 
meet the need for a diverse set of environmentally 
friendly technology solutions globally. Across all 
scenarios, customers will be expecting Ford to be part 
of the solution.

Implications of Scenarios

Net Zero Emissions Scenario (NZE)

Scenario

Industry Implications

Policy: What-it-takes policies to 
achieve net zero. CO2 pricing in all 
regions

Environment: Lower climate 
change. Severe weather events 
increase

Social: More local/personal 
environmental activism

Economy: Global growth ~ 3% 
per year. Economy is driven by 
new industries providing green 
solutions and technologies

Energy prices – Oil demand 
drops by 30% by 2030 and 
prices ~ $35 per barrel

Technology: Speed of scaling up 
innovation is rapid. Governments 
support R&D and collaborate to 
reduce costs. ZEV sales robust

•  Massive competition in green space with small, agile companies entering

•  Increased collaboration across sectors and within auto industry on key challenges

•  Fast paced shift in skills and jobs

•  Innovation allows for seamless coordination of private and public transportation

•  Requires multiple mobility solutions for urban, suburban, and rural applications

Ford Implications

•  Rapid migration to electric vehicles in developed countries while less-developed regions have diverse, low-cost 

solutions

•  Fuel cell emphasis and technological advancement needed to retain commercial truck leadership

•  Struggle to switch to electric vehicles fast enough in developed countries

•  Mix of public and private, first-mile and last-mile solutions

•  Less developed regions require low cost of ownership electrified solutions and maintaining internal combustion 

engine option

•  Intense competition causes niche focus by smaller players causing Ford to buy up smaller innovative companies 

and incorporate them into the company’s technology portfolio or increase focus on “major” segments

•  Rapidly changing technology requires upskilling and reskilling of workforce

Ford ASSESSMENT: Technology opportunities and environmental needs align to deliver diverse solution sets addressing 
climate change. Swift action required due to heightened competition. Challenge in finding winners globally to achieve scale. 

Stated Policies Scenario (STEPS)

Scenario

Industry Implications

Policy: Assumes only policies 
already announced

Environment: Higher climate 
change. Significant migration 
and rebuilding from frequent 
natural disasters

Social: Middle class constrained 
due to pressure on urban areas. 
Urbanization is a key driver

Economy: Global economy grows 
~ 3% per year but slows due to 
increasing rebuilding costs

Energy prices: Oil demand 
rebounds, ~ $90 per barrel

Technology: Technologies get 
slowly cheaper. ZEV sales lower 
than expected and primarily in 
advanced economies

•  Mobility hampered by congestion, air pollution, and severe weather

•  Healthcare, safety, and education systems strained by climate events and social unrest

•  Decreased demand for personal vehicles due to environmental impact and urban congestion. Increased 

reliance on public transportation

•  Increased supply chain disruptions lead to more complexity to avoid dependence on single suppliers or regions

•  Buy local initiatives/nationalism increase and undermine global brands

Ford Implications

•  Vehicle solutions must be environmentally friendly (air quality and CO2) and simultaneously rugged enough to 

handle severe weather

•  Lower than expected electric vehicle demand requires pricing and policy support

•  Electric vehicles can provide electricity during power outages and extreme weather events

•  Electric vehicles are required but are expensive. Low demand and lack of policy hinder their profitability. Micro-

mobility, such as e-bikes and e-scooters, satisfy the market for environmentally friendly solutions

•  Smart mobility does not reach full potential foreseen in 2022; autonomous vehicles are a niche market

•  Supply chain redundancy needed to prevent weather-related supply chain disruptions

Ford ASSESSMENT: Most difficult scenario to develop strategies for since the environment and economy are challenging. 
Increasing extreme weather events are a clear threat making it easier to gain multi-stakeholder support. Product, service, 
and supply chain diversification is critical to maintain resilience. Ford continues to focus on working towards developing 
meaningful, market-driven policy solutions to address climate change with urgency.

25  |  TCFD Report 2022

Contents

Introduction

Our Climate-Related 
Risks and Opportunities

Our Strategic 
Response

Approach and  
Introduction to Scenarios

Ford’s Risk 
Management Approach

Metrics and Targets

TCFD Index 2022

Appendix

Approach and Introduction to Scenarios – continued

•  there is increased production stoppage at Ford’s or its 

suppliers’ facilities as a result of climate-related 
natural disasters

In this scenario, a significant disruption to our production 
schedule and lower volumes of more profitable products 
could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial 
condition. 

A major shortcoming with this scenario is the lack of a 
market-driven, comprehensive carbon pricing solution. 
For this reason, Ford continues to focus on working 
towards developing meaningful, market-driven policy 
solutions focused on carbon pricing, such as a carbon 
fee and/or cap and trade, to address climate change 
with urgency.

The process of climate scenario analysis is evolving, and 
we expect the approaches and data quality to improve 
over time, which will contribute to our understanding of 
climate risks and opportunities and help strengthen our 
resilience and adaptation to climate change. This is Ford’s 
third climate change scenario analysis, and we believe 
that our recent progress towards electrification and 
improved customer experiences has made the company 
more resilient to its effects.

Although we cannot suppress climate change through our 
actions alone, we are committed to doing our part. We 
will support the needed actions of other companies, 
governments, and stakeholders so that collectively, we 
can meet the challenges of climate change.

Resilience of Ford’s Strategy
The risks and opportunities associated with climate 
change shape the way we do business, including our 
carbon reduction strategy focused on reducing emissions 
from our vehicles, operations, and supply chain. Ford 
leaders and experts evaluated each scenario against our 
strategies to assess our resilience to climate change and 
to confirm we are robust for potential futures. The 
themes we identified as critical to success are: 
electrification, public policy, workforce, customer 
experience, finance, mobility/AI, operations, suppliers, 
and reputation. The Our Strategic Response section of 
this report includes more detail on each theme. 

Our scenario development process helps identify risks 
and opportunities as we work towards our goal to achieve 
carbon neutrality no later than 2050 allowing Ford 
leaders and subject matter experts to discuss associated 
challenges. Even with positive scenarios, there are 
challenges with customer adoption of sustainable 
solutions. 

The scenario analysis process continues to impress on us 
the importance of maintaining flexibility in offering 
diverse solutions that allow us to be responsive to the 
changing needs of consumers. Based on the analysis of 
the scenarios against our strategies, we believe we are 
investing in the appropriate technologies, products, and 
customer experiences to increase our resiliency with 
various outcomes.

Ford, along with most industries, faces risks in the Stated 
Policies Scenario where:

•  the cost of available technologies to reduce CO2 is 

higher leading to lower consumer acceptance

•  engineering and financial resources are required to 
deploy new technologies while maintaining existing 
ones across a range of products

26  |  TCFD Report 2022

Contents

Introduction

Our Climate-Related 
Risks and Opportunities

Our Strategic 
Response

Approach and  
Introduction to Scenarios

Ford’s Risk 
Management Approach

Metrics and Targets

TCFD Index 2022

Appendix

Our Risk Management 
Approach

Process for Monitoring Climate-Related 
Issues
We conduct materiality assessments every two years, 
and carried out our most recent analysis in early 2021. We 
consider material information to be of greatest interest to 
our stakeholders, so they can make informed decisions 
and judgments about the company’s commitment to 
environmental, social, and economic progress.

The process involves:

•  Identification: We created and maintain a list of 
potential issues, grouped into four categories: 
Environment, Social, Governance, and Economic. These 
were identified through research that included a peer 
review, stakeholder interviews, a media scan and an 
assessment of sustainability thought leadership from 
industry experts and associations.

•  Prioritization: We continue to identify and prioritize key 
challenges and opportunities that we address through 
our Ford+ plan and other initiatives.

•  Review: The results of the analysis were reviewed by a 
range of internal and external stakeholders. We made 
revisions based on the analysis to ensure that our 
process and list of issues were comprehensive and well 
understood, and reflected stakeholder views and 
feedback.

Materiality Results
Climate-related issues were identified among our most 
material issues which are:

•  Electrification and alternative fuels/batteries

•  Vehicle product safety and quality

•  Economic performance

27  |  TCFD Report 2022

•  Climate change, air quality and renewable energy 

energy future

We acknowledge emerging trends and assess them for 
inclusion as they arise. The emerging trends identified as 
affecting our business are climate change, public health, 
geopolitics, safety standards, data protection, privacy 
and security, and sustainable cities.

Our Materiality Matrix
The materiality matrix plots the ratings of each issue. 
The x-axis represents the impact that economic, 
environmental, and societal issues have on our business, 
while the y-axis represents the influence on stakeholder 
decision-making. Issues found toward the upper right-
hand corner of the matrix are of higher influence and 
importance to both Ford and stakeholders.

Aligning with the thoughts of some of our stakeholders, 
we believe that Just Transition and climate justice sit at 
the intersection of many material issues, but do not need 
to be called out specifically.

à	

Read more about on our approach to materiality and for 
definitions of material issues in our GRI Index in our ESG 
Data Book

Management Processes
We have a number of management processes, systems, 
committees, and groups in place that are designed to 
help us identify, assess, and manage climate-related risks 
as well as improve our sustainability performance, act 
responsibly and ethically, and take responsibility for the 
impact our activities have on society and the world 
around us.

4

1

7

8

5

6

2

3

12

9

10

13

11

Materiality Matrix
Materiality Matrix

h
g
H

i

i

g
n
k
a
M
-
n
o
i
s
i

c
e
D
r
e
d
l
o
h
e
k
a
t
S
n
o
e
c
n
e
u
fl
n
I

i

m
u
d
e
M

16

17

15

14

Medium

Impact on Ford

High

Materiality matrix based on internal and external rankings, and validation workshop

1   Electrification and Alternative Fuels/Batteries

10   Data Protection, Privacy and Security

 Vehicle/Product Safety and Quality

2  

 Economic Performance

3  

  Climate Change, Air Quality and  

4  

Renewable Energy/Energy Future

 Employee Wellness, Health and Safety

5  

 Human Rights and Supply Chain Management

6  

 Transparency, Ethics and Integrity

7  

 Human Capital and Diversity, Equity and Inclusion

8  

 Mobility Solutions and Autonomous Vehicles

9  

 Customer Engagement, Marketing and Satisfaction

 Government Regulations, Policy and Engagement

 Accountable and Inclusive Governance

  Socioeconomic Contribution and  

Community Engagement

  Sustainable Materials – Material Design and 

Management

 Water Use/Water Stewardship

 Waste Management

11  

12  

13  

14  

15  

16  

17  

 Environment    

 Economic/Innovation    

 Society    

 Governance

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Contents

Introduction

Our Climate-Related 
Risks and Opportunities

Our Strategic 
Response

Approach and  
Introduction to Scenarios

Ford’s Risk 
Management Approach

Metrics and Targets

TCFD Index 2022

Appendix

Ford’s Risk Management Approach – continued

Board’s Role in Risk Management
The oversight responsibility of the Board and its 
committees is supported by Company management and 
the risk management processes that are currently in 
place. Ford has extensive and effective risk management 
processes, relating specifically to compliance, reporting, 
operating, and strategic risks. 

We believe that key success factors in the risk 
management at Ford include a strong risk analysis tone 
set by the Board and senior management, which is shown 
through their commitment to effective top-down and 
bottom-up communication (including communication 
between management and the Board and Committees), 
and active cross-functional participation among the 
Business Units and Functional Skill Teams. 

We have institutionalized a regular Forecast, Controls and 
Risk Review and Special Attention Review process where 
the senior leadership of the Company reviews the status 
of the business, the risks, and opportunities presented to 
the business (in the areas of compliance, reporting, 
operating, and strategic risks), and develops specific 
plans to address those risks and opportunities.

The Enterprise Risk Management process adopted by the 
Company identifies the top critical enterprise risks 
identified through a survey process of senior management 
and the Board of Directors. Once identified, each of the top 
risks is assigned an executive risk owner who is responsible 
to oversee risk assessment, develop mitigation plans, and 
provide regular updates. The Enterprise Risk Management 
process also engages Business Units and Skill Teams to 
determine which of the enterprise risks are most relevant 
to their specific objectives, and identify any additional risks 
that can be managed at a lower level in the organization. 
Risks at all levels are shared and aligned for a top-down 
and bottom-up view and management of risk. The Audit 
Committee and Board annually review the process to 
update the list of critical risks and monitor risk movement 
and emerging trends.

28  |  TCFD Report 2022

Ford’s Vice President, Chief Sustainability, Environment & 
Safety Officer has responsibility for climate-related 
issues governed by our ERM process and assists the Chair 
of the Board of Directors’ Sustainability, Innovation and 
Policy Committee in coordinating topics for review and 
decision. 

We monitor climate-related issues through the following 
reviews: 

Operations Flash Review (Ops Flash): The senior 
leadership team, led by the CEO, and representing all skill 
teams and business units, holds Ops Flash meetings to 
review our management of sustainability and review of 
the overall business environment, competitor actions, 
and risks and opportunities. Ford’s sustainability 
scorecard is reviewed alongside our business units’ 
scorecards at these meetings. 

Enterprise Special Attention Review (SAR): The SAR is 
a meeting to review and decide on topics related to the 
overall enterprise. The senior leadership team reviews 
significant matters in more detail and develops action 
plans and strategies to address more specific risks and 
opportunities. 

The Strategy Forum is a review of key corporate and 
automotive strategic decisions driving the broader 
corporate directives with a focus on key transformational 
workstreams, validating actions, portfolio choices, 
process enhancements, and strategic choices.

Global Sustainability & ESG Meeting (GSM): The GSM 
is a meeting to review and decide on sustainability topics 
related to the overall enterprise. The senior leadership 
team reviews climate risks and opportunities in more 
detail and develops action plans and strategies to 
address them.

The People Forum enables us to review key people-
related matters, leadership development and 
organization fitness elements of our business. 

Management Processes

Board Committees

Executive Management

Function Areas

Oversight of Risk Management

Sustainability, Innovation and Policy Committee 
• Meets at least three times a year 
• Primary responsibility for assessing the company’s progress on strategic economic, product 

safety, environmental and social issues, as well as the degree to which sustainability 
principles have been integrated into the various skill teams 

• Evaluates and advises on innovations and technologies that improve our economic, product 
safety, environmental and social sustainability, enrich our customers’ experiences, increase 
shareholder value, and improve people’s lives 

• Reviews the Integrated Sustainability and Financial Report summary as well as any Company 

initiatives related to sustainability and innovation

à	Read the Charter of the Sustainability, Innovation and Policy Committee

Other Board committees: Audit, Compensation, Talent and Culture, Nominating and 
Governance, and Finance

Vice President, Chief Sustainability, Environment and Safety Officer
• Primary responsibility for sustainability issues
• Oversees the Sustainability and Vehicle Environmental Matters group, the Environmental 

Quality Office, the Vehicle Homologation and Compliance group and the Automotive Safety 
Office

• Leads a multi-disciplinary executive-level team that oversees actions in response to our 
sustainability strategies and integration and issues related to our We Are Committed to 
Human Rights and the Environment Policy

Other executive and group vice presidents across our functional areas also have 
responsibility for sustainability-related issues. These include our Chief People and Employee 
Experiences Officer and our Chief Diversity Officer.

Sustainability and Vehicle Environmental Matters
• Coordinates our company wide sustainability strategy and activities
• Leads our sustainability reporting and stakeholder engagement
• Collaborates with other functional areas and skill teams to integrate sustainability throughout 

the company

Compliance and Reporting

Operating and Strategic

Ford Board 
Oversight

Audit Committee

Ford Management 
Day to Day

Compliance Reviews 
Sarbanes-Oxley Compliance 
Internal Controls 
Disclosure Committee

Sustainability, Innovation and Policy 
Committee 
Compensation, Talent and Culture 
Committee 
Finance Committee 
Audit Committee

Business Units and Skill Teams 
Forecast, Controls and Risk Review 
Special Attention Review 
Product, Strategy and People Forums

Contents

Introduction

Our Climate-Related 
Risks and Opportunities

Our Strategic 
Response

Approach and  
Introduction to Scenarios

Ford’s Risk 
Management Approach

Metrics and Targets

TCFD Index 2022

Appendix

Metrics and Targets

Metrics Used To Assess Climate-Related 
Risks And Opportunities
To manage climate risks and opportunities, our primary 
vehicle metrics are fuel economy, CO2 tailpipe emissions 
and fuel consumption. Our primary facility metrics are 
absolute tCO2e and % renewable electricity. These 
metrics as well as some additional ones, are 
shown opposite.

Metric

Performance

Comment

Scope 1 Emissions  
(metric tonnes CO2e) 

Scope 2 Emissions 
(metric tonnes CO2e) 

Scope 3 Emission 
(metric tonnes CO2e) 

Vehicles

Sales weighted average 
fleet fuel economy for 2021

Geographic breakdown  
of vehicle GHG emissions 
for 2021

2020

1,129,402

2,473,273

2019

1,418,056

3,040,293

2018

1,442,963

3,219,716

349,281,992

435,144,438

398,915,810

Ford U.S. corporate average fuel economy, combined car, and truck fleet (miles per gallon): 29.0 
Ford (China) Import corporate average fuel consumption (L/100km): 10.68 
Changan Ford Automobile Corporation (CAF) corporate average fuel consumption (L/100km): 7.25 
Jiangling Motors Corporation (JMC) corporate average fuel consumption (L/100km): 9.25

Ford U.S. CO2 tailpipe emissions per vehicle (grams per mile): 289 
Ford Europe CO2 tailpipe emissions per passenger vehicle (grams per kilometer): Data available June 2022. 
Ford Switzerland CO2 tailpipe emissions per passenger vehicle (grams per kilometer): Data available May 2022 
Ford Switzerland CO2 tailpipe emissions per light commercial vehicle (grams per kilometer): Data available May 2022 
Ford (China) Import CO2 corporate average tailpipe emissions (grams per 100 kilometers): 253.12 
Changan Ford Automobile Corporation CO2 corporate average tailpipe emissions (grams per 100 kilometers): 171.83 
Jiangling Motors Corporation CO2 corporate average tailpipe emissions (grams per 100 kilometers): 219.23

Global fleet efficiency  
for 2020

The fleet average on-road well-to-wheels gCO2e/km intensity decreased from 330 to 311 between 2019 and 2020, a 6% 
decrease, due to fleet efficiency improvements and vehicle mix changes. 

Life Cycle Reporting of 
Vehicle GHG Emissions  
for 2021

We estimate that our vehicles sold in 2021 will produce approximately 250 million metric tons of of CO2e from fuel 
production and combustion over a 150,000 mile lifetime (based on preliminary data)

Vehicle sales by category 
for 2021

55,692 Electric Vehicles

64,460 Plug-In Hybrid Vehicles

126,663 Hybrid Vehicles

Emissions are market based

Emissions are well to wheel. In 2020 we updated our Scope 3 
Category 11 (Use of Sold Products) vehicle emissions calculation 
to be more comprehensive, adding upstream (well-to-tank) 
emissions, adjusting for on-road fuel consumption, and 
increasing lifetime miles travelled. In our 2018 and 2019 CDP 
Scope 3 reporting we used TTW emissions, which we have 
updated here to our more comprehensive methodology.

Changan Ford (CAF) and Jiangling Motors Corp (JMC) are joint 
ventures with Ford Motor Company

Changan Ford (CAF) and Jiangling Motors Corp (JMC) are joint 
ventures with Ford Motor Company

Our Scope 3 SBTi target tracks fleet average gCO2e/km for 
our U.S., EU+UK, and China vehicles. Light-duty (passenger 
and commercial) vehicles are included for all three regions, 
and medium/heavy duty commercial vehicles are included 
for the U.S. These vehicles represent about 88% of global 
vehicle emissions. Annual sales and tank-to-wheels gCO2e/km 
emissions data are collected and converted to on-road well-to-
wheels gCO2e/km. 

Using the GHG Protocol methodology, estimated emissions 
shown are from vehicle on-road use, on a well-to-wheels basis. 
This estimate does not include emissions from materials, 
manufacturing or end of life.

29  |  TCFD Report 2022

Contents

Introduction

Our Climate-Related 
Risks and Opportunities

Our Strategic 
Response

Approach and  
Introduction to Scenarios

Ford’s Risk 
Management Approach

Metrics and Targets

TCFD Index 2022

Appendix

Metrics and Targets – continued

Financial

Performance

Comment

Revenues/savings from 
investments in low-carbon 
alternatives

Energy efficiency in buildings estimated annual savings is $1.8 million

Energy efficiency in production processes estimated annual savings is $1.9 million

Expenditures (OpEx) for 
R&D

Year 
2019 
2020 
2021

Expenses(in Billions) 
$7.4 
$7.1 
$7.6

Investments (CapEx) in our
low-carbon future

  We’re investing $50 billion from 2022 to 2026 in electric vehicles and battery production. This includes $5 billion in 

2022, including capital expenditures, expenses, and direct investments, a two-fold increase over 2021. Some of the EV 
investments we have underway include:

$700 million in the new Rouge Electric Vehicle Center for the production of F-150 Lightning.

$100 million for the manufacture of the all-new E-Transit at our Kansas City Assembly Plant.

$1.35 billion to build the next generation of electric vehicles at the Oakville Assembly Complex in Ontario.

$11.4 billion planned investment by Ford and SK Innovation in Stanton, Tennessee and Glendale, Kentucky for production 
of electric vehicles and batteries to begin in 2025. 

$1 billion to modernize our vehicle assembly facility in Cologne to turn it into the Ford Cologne Electrification Center.

£230 million in the Halewood, UK Transmission Facility to build EV components for Europe.

Investments made in global manufacturing locations to improve 
energy and process efficiency while generating savings sufficient 
to self-fund the capital investments (including LED Lighting, 
Compressed Air Systems, Paint Process, Machining and Building 
Management Systems Improvements)

Engineering, research, and development expenses primarily 
consist of salaries, materials, and associated costs

30  |  TCFD Report 2022

 
Contents

Introduction

Our Climate-Related 
Risks and Opportunities

Our Strategic 
Response

Approach and  
Introduction to Scenarios

Ford’s Risk 
Management Approach

Metrics and Targets

TCFD Index 2022

Appendix

Metrics and Targets – continued

Sustainability  
Aspirations

Goals 

Progress 

Links to 
SDGs

Climate 
Change

Achieve carbon  
neutrality no later 
than 2050

à

Find out more in our Integrated 

Sustainability and Financial Report 

2022 on page 83

Vehicles:
•  Accelerate our electrification strategy
•  Improve fuel economy across our 

global vehicle lineup, consistent with 
regulatory requirements and our 
commitment to the Paris Agreement 

•  Offer alternative fuel vehicles

Facilities:
•  Reduce global facility GHG emissions 

by 18% (2019–2023)

Vehicles:
•  We are on track to meet our SBTi target of 50% reduction in Scope 3 GHG emissions per vehicle kilometer from use of 

sold products by 2035 from a 2019 base year. 

•  Sales of 27,140 Mustang Mach-E vehicles in 2021 making it the nation’s second bestselling full electric SUV behind 

Tesla’s Model Y.

•  Launched the E-Transit with more than 10,000 small, medium, and large business customers’ reservations.
•  Launching the all-electric F-150 Lightning pickup in 2022 with 200,000 customer reservations. 
•  By the end of 2023, expand global capacity to produce 600,000 electric vehicles annually.
•  More than 2 million electric vehicles produced annually by 2026, representing about one-third of Ford’s global volume.
•  Investing $50 billion in electric vehicles from 2022 to 2026. 
•  Ford expects 50% of its global vehicle volume to be fully electric by 2030.
•  Joined RouteZero, a global coalition working towards 100% zero-emissions cars and vans globally in leading markets 

no later than 2035.

Facilities:
•  We are on track to meet our SBTi target of 76% reduction in Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 2035 from a 2017 base year. 
•  Achieved a 35% reduction in our absolute manufacturing GHG footprint since 2017.
•  In Europe, Ford is already using 100 percent carbon-free electricity to power: Dunton and Daventry in the U.K., the 

Craiova plant in Romania, and all facilities in Cologne, Germany including the vehicle assembly and engine plants, as 
well as the Research Center in Merkenich.

•  Dearborn Truck Plant, Michigan Assembly Plant, and several new buildings on our Research and Engineering and 

Corktown campuses powered by 100% local renewable electricity.

•  All remaining manufacturing and large commercial facilities in Michigan will be sourced with 100 percent local carbon-

free electricity by 2025.

•  Invested $1 billion to modernize our vehicle assembly facility in Cologne to turn it into the Ford Cologne Electrification 

Center.

•  Ford and SK Innovation plan to invest $11.4 billion and create nearly 11,000 new jobs in Tennessee and Kentucky with 

production of the electric vehicles and lithium-ion batteries in 2025, creating our first greenfield carbon neutral facilities.
•  Joined the U.S. Department of Energy’s Better Climate Challenge to reduce GHG emissions from our facilities by at least 

half by 2030.

Suppliers:
•  Establish baseline for supplier CO2 

emissions and develop a joint roadmap 
for performance improvements

•  Work with selected suppliers to reduce 
our collective environmental footprint 
through PACE

Suppliers:
•  We are on track to meet our supplier emissions target. 
•  We received GHG emissions data from 262 production suppliers (12% more than last year) using CDP Supply Chain 

program’s Climate Change questionnaire.

•  We have shared GHG emission reduction best practices with nearly 80 key Tier 1 suppliers through our Partnership for 

a Cleaner Environment (PACE) program.

•  Increased FastPACE participation by over 60% from 2020, sharing Ford best practices in GHG emission reduction with 

suppliers from China, India, Thailand, and South Africa.

•  PACE and FastPACE suppliers are projected to save an estimated 17,650 metric tons of CO2 emissions from their 

operations over the next three years.

31  |  TCFD Report 2022

 
Contents

Introduction

Our Climate-Related 
Risks and Opportunities

Our Strategic 
Response

Approach and  
Introduction to Scenarios

Ford’s Risk 
Management Approach

Metrics and Targets

TCFD Index 2022

Appendix

Metrics and Targets – continued

Sustainability  
Aspirations

Goals 

Progress 

Links to 
SDGs

Air emissions reductions 
other than CO2

•  The tailpipe emissions of our vehicle fleet will drop significantly as our EV sales percentage grows.
•  Working to reduce vehicle emissions of non-CO2 pollutants, in accordance with increasingly stringent standards around 

the world.

•  Ford manufacturing facilities in China have reduced VOC emissions by more than 600 tons per year since 2015 through 

various management and engineering investment measures, contributing to cleaner air.

•  Shared air emission reduction best practices with nearly 80 key Tier 1 suppliers through PACE.

Reduce waste to landfill by 35% when 
measured in kg per unit

•  Beginning in the third quarter of 2021, Ford manufacturing plants in China have achieved zero waste to landfill (ZWTL). 
Waste generated in all factories are either being managed for thermal destruction with or without energy recovery or 
recycled, instead of being sent to landfills for final disposal.

•  89 zero waste to landfill (ZWTL) sites globally, including manufacturing and non-manufacturing sites.
•  74% of manufacturing facilities are true ZWTL.
•  In 2021, Ford facilities around the world sent approximately 16,300 metric tons of waste to landfill, 7% less than in 2020. 

Reduce general trash by 25% when 
measured in kg per unit

•  Standardizing the tracking and sorting of waste to increase recycling and reuse.

Improve waste avoidance by 15% 
when measured in kg per unit

•  Implementing technologies and programs that minimize waste.
•  Working with suppliers to increase the use of eco-friendly packaging.

Work with selected suppliers to reduce 
our collective environmental footprint

•  Shared waste reduction best practices with nearly 80 key Tier 1 suppliers through PACE.

• 

Increased FastPACE participation by over 60% from 2020, sharing Ford best practices in waste reduction with 
suppliers from China, India, Thailand, and South Africa.

Air

Attain zero emissions  
from our vehicles  
and facilities

à

Find out more in our Integrated 

Sustainability and Financial Report 

2022 on page 92

Waste

Reach true zero waste to 
landfill across our operations

Eliminate single-use plastics 
from our operations by 2030

à

Find out more in our Integrated 

Sustainability and Financial 

Report 2022 on page 95

Links to SDGs

32  |  TCFD Report 2022

 
 
Contents

Introduction

Our Climate-Related 
Risks and Opportunities

Our Strategic 
Response

Approach and  
Introduction to Scenarios

Ford’s Risk 
Management Approach

Metrics and Targets

TCFD Index 2022

Appendix

Metrics and Targets – continued

Sustainability  
Aspirations

Goals 

Progress 

Links to 
SDGs

Reduce absolute freshwater use by 
15% by 2025

Continue to work towards using 
freshwater sources for human 
consumption 

Work with selected suppliers to 
reduce our collective environmental 
footprint through PACE

Engage with our supply chain to 
understand and reduce its water 
footprint

Expand our use of 
sustainable materials 
focusing on plastics, 
battery recycling, and 
sustainable sourcing

•  More than 12.5 billion gallons of water saved since 2000.

•  Installed more non-water-based technologies and are using alternative sources such as other companies’ treated 

wastewater.

•  Increased the use of offsite alternative water by 6%.
•  Incorporating more water processes and technologies in our assembly plants, including water reuse and recycling 

systems.

•  PACE suppliers expect to save an estimated 182 million gallons of water in their operations from 2020 to 2030. 
•  Increased FastPACE participation by over 60% from 2020, sharing Ford best practices in water conservation with 

suppliers from China, India, Thailand, and South Africa.

•  196 of our suppliers (14% increase over last year) responded to the CDP Water questionnaire.

•  More than 85%* of vehicle parts and materials are recycled and reused at their end of life.
•  Established an interim target of 20% renewable and recycled plastics by 2025 in new vehicle designs for North America 

and Europe, and 10% in China and Turkey.

•  Ford is the first automaker to use 100% recycled ocean plastics to produce automotive parts.
•  The closed loop recycling system used to build F-Series recovered up to 20 million pounds of high-strength, military-

grade, aluminum alloy per month.

•  Collaborating with Redwood Materials to integrate battery recycling into our domestic battery strategy.
•  Since 2000, we have used 12 industry- and world-first plant-based materials in our production vehicles.
•  Researching the possible use of tomato skin, bamboo, agave fiber, dandelion root, algae, almond shells, and hemp fiber 

as materials.

•  Created a cross-functional Responsible Materials Council to improve visibility to sustainable materials.

*For North America and the EU.

Water

Make zero water withdrawals 
for manufacturing processes

Use freshwater only for human 
consumption

à

Find out more in our Integrated 

Sustainability and Financial Report 

2022 on page 93

Materials

Utilize only recycled or renewable 
content in vehicle plastics

à

Find out more in our Integrated 

Sustainability and Financial Report 

2022 on page 96

33  |  TCFD Report 2022

 
 
Contents

Introduction

Our Climate-Related 
Risks and Opportunities

Our Strategic 
Response

Approach and  
Introduction to Scenarios

Ford’s Risk 
Management Approach

Metrics and Targets

TCFD Index 2022

Appendix

TCFD Index 2022

The Task Force on Climate-related Disclosures (TCFD) published its recommendations on information regarding climate change 
for companies in June 2017. The table below identifies the actions taken by Ford in response to these recommendations.  

TCFD recommended disclosure

Location (section, page reference) and notes

GOVERNANCE: Disclose the organization’s governance around climate-related risks and opportunities.

a. Describe the Board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities.

Governance and Accountability – Board Oversight, page 9

b. Describe management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities.

Governance and Accountability – Management’s Role, page 9

Strategy: Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s business, strategy, and financial planning where such information is material.

a. Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organization has identified over the short, medium, and long term.

b. Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy, and financial planning.

Our Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities – Climate-Related Risks and their Impact on the Business Activity, page 12 
Our Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities – Climate-Related Opportunities for the Business, page 13 
Our Risks Management Approach – Process for Monitoring Climate-Related Issues, page 27 
Responding to the Climate Challenge – Carbon Neutrality No Later than 2050, page 7

Our Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities – Climate-Related Risks and their Impact on the Business Activity, page 12 
Our Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities – Climate-Related Opportunities for the Business, page 13 
Our Strategic Response, page 14

c. Describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking into consideration different climate-related scenarios,  
including a 2°C or lower scenario.

Approach and Introduction to Scenarios – Introduction to the Scenarios, page 24 
Approach and Introduction to Scenarios – Implications of the Scenarios, page 24 
Approach and Introduction to Scenarios – Resilience of Ford’s Strategy, page 26 

Risk Management: Disclose how the organization identifies, assesses, and manages climate-related risks.

a. Describe the organization’s processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks.

Our Risks Management Approach – Process for Monitoring Climate-Related Issues, page 27

b. Describe the organization’s processes for managing climate-related risks.

Our Risks Management Approach – Management Processes, page 27

c. Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and managing climate-related risks are integrated into the organization’s overall risk 
management.

Our Risks Management Approach – Management Processes, page 27

Metrics And Targets: Disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage relevant climate-related risks and opportunities where such information is material.

a. Disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess climate-related risks and opportunities in line with its strategy  
and risk management process.

b. Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and if appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and the related risks.

c. Describe the targets used by the organization to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and performance against targets.

Metrics and Targets – Metrics Used to Assess Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities, page 29 
Metrics and Targets – Progress Against Aspirations (Climate Change), page 31 
Metrics and Targets – Progress Against Aspirations (Air), page 32 
Metrics and Targets – Progress Against Aspirations (Waste), page 32 
Metrics and Targets – Progress Against Aspirations (Water), page 33 
Metrics and Targets – Progress Against Aspirations (Materials), page 33

Metrics and Targets – Metrics Used to Assess Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities, page 29 
Metrics and Targets – Progress Against Aspirations (Climate Change), page 31

Metrics and Targets – Progress Against Aspirations (Climate Change), page 31 
Metrics and Targets – Progress Against Aspirations (Air), page 32 
Metrics and Targets – Progress Against Aspirations (Waste), page 32 
Metrics and Targets – Progress Against Aspirations (Water), page 33 
Metrics and Targets – Progress Against Aspirations (Materials), page 33

34  |  TCFD Report 2022

Contents

Introduction

Our Climate-Related 
Risks and Opportunities

Our Strategic 
Response

Approach and  
Introduction to Scenarios

Ford’s Risk 
Management Approach

Metrics and Targets

TCFD Index 2022

Appendix

Appendix

For our 2019 climate change scenario report, we developed our own, unique scenarios  
which we also reference in this report. The alignment of these scenarios with  
WEO scenarios is shown below.

2030 – 2040 Ford/WEO Scenario Alignment

Ford Scenario

IEA WEO Scenario

Description

Too Little, Too Late 
Speed of Adaptation Wins

Stated Policies Scenario

One Size Does Not Fit All 
Life Is Good, Speed Is Key

Net Zero Emissions Scenario

Today’s policies with no changes Existing and planned CO2 pricing 
Evolutionary technology growth Oil averages $90/bbl Lower ZEV 
adoption in advanced economies

What it takes policy to limit temperature rise to 1.5°C CO2 prices rise 
rapidly in all regions High policy support and collaboration around 
technology results in unprecedented speed of scaling Oil averages 
$35/bbl Higher ZEV adoption across markets

35  |  TCFD Report 2022

Ford Motor Company 
One American Road (207-E6)  
Dearborn, MI 48126, U.S.A. 

sustainability.ford.com 
shareholder.ford.com

