Sharing Goodness for

2019 SASB INDEX

SASB Index 2019

Topic

Accounting  Metric

Category

Unit of Measure Code

Response

Energy 
Management

(1) Total energy consumed, (2) percentage 
grid electricity, (3) percentage renewable

Quantitative

Gigajoules (GJ), 
Percentage (%)

FB-PF-130a.1

(1)  4,144,498 GJ
(2)  Nearly all energy consumed represents grid electricity 
(3)  Percentage renewable not available.

Water Management 

(1) Total water withdrawn, (2)  total water
consumed, percentage of each in regions 
with High or Extremely High Baseline 
Water Stress

Quantitative

Thousand cubic 
meters (m³), 
Percentage (%)

FB-PF-140a.1

(1)   2,647,823 m3 in 2019 (0% withdrawn in regions of Extremely High Baseline Water Stress, 20.5% 

withdrawn in regions of High Baseline Water Stress)

(2)   708,481.5 m3 megaliters in 2019  (0% in regions of Extremely High Baseline Water Stress, 48.2%  

in regions of High Baseline Water Stress)

Note for 2019, this data represents water usage at our manufacturing facilities only and excludes our 
Malaysian and Amplify/ONE properties. Based on the WRI Aqueduct tool, our manufacturing plants in  
El Salto and Monterrey are in High Baseline Water Stress Areas.

Number of incidents of non-compliance 
associated with water quantity and/or 
quality permits, standards, and regulations

Quantitative

Number

FB-PF-140a.2 During the reporting period, we did not identify any non-compliance with environmental laws and/or 
regulations, including water quantity/quality permits, standards and regulations that would give rise to 
significant fines or sanctions.

Description of water management risks 
and discussion of strategies and practices 
to mitigate those risks

Discussion  
and Analysis

n/a

FB-PF-140a.3

Planet: Protecting Our Water Supply p. 39

Food Safety 

Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI) 
audit (1) non-conformance rate and (2) 
associated corrective action rate for (a) 
major and (b) minor non-conformances

Quantitative

Rate

FB-PF-250a.1

All Hershey-owned manufacturing facilities were certified against a recognized GFSI Standard. As such, 
all facilities are audited annually to assess compliance against the provisions of the standards. In all, 15 
facilities, including 8 in the U.S., 2 each in Canada and Mexico, and 1 each in Brazil, India and Malaysia, 
were certified against a GFSI standard. 

There were no major non-conformances identified at any of the 15 manufacturing facilities. This 
translated to a major non-conformance rate of 0.0. There were 49 minor non-conformances identified 
across the 15 facilities, resulting in a minor non-conformance rate of just under 3.3. Corrective actions 
were implemented for 100% of the minor non-conformances identified and submitted to and accepted 
by the GFSI certifying body for confirmation.  

Percentage of ingredients sourced  
from Tier 1 supplier facilities certified  
to a Global Food Safety Initiative  
(GFSI) recognized food safety 
certification program

Quantitative

Percentage (%) 
by cost 

FB-PF-250a.2 Globally, 87% of our suppliers (by count) were GFSI certified. Those not certified represented a very 

small portion of our ingredient spend as they were either contingency suppliers required to back up 
our traditional suppliers or they provided low-volume specialty ingredients. For example, in our North 
American operations, 99.92% of our ingredients were procured from GFSI certified suppliers (by spend).   

(1) Total number of notices of food  
safety violation received, (2) percentage 
corrected 

Quantitative

Number, 
Percentage (%)

(1) Number of recalls issued, (2) total 
amount of food product recalled

Quantitative

Number,  
Metric tons (t)  

Health & Nutrition

Revenue from products labeled and/or 
marketed to promote health and nutrition 
attributes

Quantitative

Reporting 
currency

FB-PF-250a.3 On a global basis, Hershey received no notices of food safety violations during 2019.

FB-PF-250a.4  On a global basis, Hershey conducted no recalls of its products during 2019.

FB-PF-260a.1 Current Hershey data collection protocols do not include this metric. 

Discussion of the process to identify and 
manage products and ingredients related 
to nutritional and health concerns  
among consumers

Discussion  
and Analysis

n/a 

FB-PF-260a.2 We maintain a Food Claims Review Council in the U.S. that acts as a collaborative, cross-functional team 

of regulatory, nutrition and legal partners. The council provides guidance with regards to product claims, 
labeling, marketing and advertising early in the innovation process to ensure products are compliant 
and address consumer needs. In providing guidance, the council touches upon a wide variety of topics, 
including nutrition, ingredients, sustainability, responsible sourcing and product certifications.

2

THE HERSHEY COMPANY  |  2019 SASB INDEXTopic

Accounting  Metric

Category

Unit of Measure Code

Response

Product Labeling  
& Marketing

Packaging Lifecycle 
Management

Percentage of advertising impressions  
(1) made on children and (2) made on 
children promoting products that meet 
dietary guidelines

Revenue from products labeled as  
(1) containing genetically modified 
organisms (GMOs) and (2) non-GMO

Number of incidents of non-compliance 
with industry or regulatory labeling and/or 
marketing codes

Total amount of monetary losses as a 
result of legal proceedings associated with 
labeling and/or marketing practices

(1) Total weight of packaging,  
(2) percentage made from recycled  
and/or renewable materials, and  
(3) percentage that is recyclable, reusable, 
and/or compostable

Discussion of strategies to reduce the 
environmental impact of packaging 
throughout its lifecycle

Environmental  
& Social Impacts  
of Ingredient 
Supply Chain

Percentage of food ingredients sourced 
that are certified to third-party 
environmental and/or social standards, and 
percentages by standard

Suppliers’ social and environmental 
responsibility audit (1) non-conformance 
rate and (2) associated corrective action 
rate for (a) major and (b) minor non-
conformances

Quantitative

Percentage (%)

FB-PF-270a.1

Business: Marketing Responsibly p. 17 

Quantitative

Reporting 
currency

FB-PF-270a.2 Current Hershey data collection protocols do not include this metric.

Quantitative

Number

FB-PF-270a.3 No substantiated incidents of non-compliance in calendar year 2019.  

Quantitative

Reporting 
currency

FB-PF-270a.4

In calendar year 2019, the company resolved an unsubstantiated claim for $22,500, which alleged that  
a product’s name was misleading. No corrective action was taken.

Quantitative Metric tons (t), 
Percentage (%)

FB-PF-410a.1

(1)  129,946 t for North America only

(2)   65% of packaging was sustainably sourced renewable virgin materials, 22% of our packaging in North 

America was post-consumer recycled material

(3)  80% of our packaging by weight was recyclable

Discussion 
and 
Analysis 

Quantitative

n/a 

FB-PF-410a.2

Planet: Exploring Sustainable Packaging p. 41

Percentage (%) 
by cost

FB-PF-430a.1

In 2019, 51% of food ingredients sourced (by cost) were certified to third-party environmental and/or 
social standards. Representative standards included: Fair Trade USA, Rainforest Alliance, Roundtable on 
Sustainable Palm Oil and Bonsucro. 

Business: Responsible Sourcing p. 19

Quantitative

Rate 

FB-PF-430a.2 We evaluated all of our Tier 1 raw material and packaging suppliers as well as co-manufacturers,  

co-packers and licensees. We then developed a prioritized list for further supplier due diligence, which 
will include assessing environmental and social impact as part of our newly revised Responsible Sourcing 
Supplier program to launch in 2020. 
We monitor and investigate actors in our palm oil supply chain for whom we’ve received allegations 
of potential or negative environmental/social impacts. Updates about these actors, description about 
allegations raised and the status of the monitoring and investigation of these potential or actual 
environmental/social impacts can be reviewed on our Palm Oil Grievance Log, updated quarterly. 

3

THE HERSHEY COMPANY  |  2019 SASB INDEXTopic

Accounting  Metric

Category

Unit of Measure Code

Response

Ingredient Sourcing

Percentage of food ingredients sourced 
from regions with High or Extremely High 
Baseline Water Stress

Quantitative

Percentage (%) 
by cost 

FB-PF-440a.1 Hershey has not yet conducted a water risk analysis of our supply chain, but doing so is part of our 

corporate efforts to re-evaluate our sustainability goals to be in line with the best available science and 
data. We believe over the next two years there will be more to share on this topic. 

List of priority food ingredients and 
discussion of sourcing risks due to 
environmental and social considerations

Discussion 
and 
Analysis

n/a 

FB-PF-440a.2 Hershey does its part to support the long-term sustainability of the ingredients and raw materials 

we source. The methodology below was followed to define our priority ingredients and raw materials 
most important to Hershey’s business where we can make the biggest impact in addressing pressing 
environmental, social and economic issues. 

1.   We collected 2018 spend by ingredients and raw materials that Hershey sources across all regions  as well 
as the list of countries from where we source the majority of the specific ingredients and raw materials. 
Business: Where We Source Our Ingredients p. 18

2.  We partnered with human rights NGO Verité to develop a heatmap to analyze risk as defined by  
our salient and material issues (inclusive of environmental issues such as climate change, water  
access and deforestation) across our key value chains and geographic footprint. Read more about  
the methodology, key data sources references and partnership with Verité here and on our  
Human Rights web page.  

3.  Based on the heatmap, we conducted an internal gap analysis to understand what risks per ingredient 
and raw material our responsible sourcing policies and programs currently address. The gap analysis 
reviewed specific ingredient and raw material policies and programs, not general policies and programs 
such as Supplier Code of Conduct and Supplier Program, Human Rights Policy, Environmental  
Policy, or any other umbrella policy that would provide overall language for a risk across all  
ingredients and raw materials. 

4.  We defined priority ingredients based on the spend and risk data overlaid with the internal gap  

analysis findings.

As a result of this work, Hershey defined its priority ingredients and raw materials as: 
•  High priority: cocoa, sugar and dairy 
•  Medium priority: palm oil, and pulp and paper 
•   Other key ingredients and raw materials: peanuts,* tree nuts,* soy,* beef,* corn, flour, coconut, egg, 

poultry, pork, tin and aluminum 

* 

 Denotes an ingredient to watch that has associated environmental risks and will be re-assessed as 
Hershey’s environmental strategy develops.

Priority materials will be revisited annually to assess possible reprioritization based on:

1.  Changes in our supply chain (e.g., due to mergers and acquisitions or new products)

2. Developments in our environmental and human rights strategies

3. Changes in ingredients’ sustainability risks 

In 2020, we are updating many of our priority ingredients’ and raw materials’ policies, strategies and 
goals as well as our Hershey Responsible Sourcing web page to be in line with and reflective of our new 
2020–2022 Responsible Sourcing Strategy. For updates on the responsible sourcing of ingredients and 
raw materials and to monitor future updates of our priority ingredient and raw material strategies, please 
visit our Hershey Responsible Sourcing web page.

Activity Metric 

Weight of products sold 

Category

Unit of Measure Code

Response

Quantitative Metric tons (t) 

FB-PF-000.a

907,205 t (note this reflects weight of product produced in 2019 at Hershey-owned facilities not weight 
of product sold)

Number of production facilities

Quantitative

Number

FB-PF-000.b

15

4

THE HERSHEY COMPANY  |  2019 SASB INDEX