2021 Corporate Responsibility Report 

Table of Contents

3  Overview 

28  Health & Well-Being 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

14 

17 

 A Letter from our Chairman & CEO and CSO

Our Company 

Our Corporate Responsibility Strategy 

Awards & Recognition 

Impact Throughout our Value Chain

Goals & Progress

Environment

Circular Economy

Climate, Emissions & Energy

Water Efficiency & Stewardship 

20  Supply Chain

21 

25 

26 

Responsible Sourcing

Nature  

Livelihoods

29 

31 

32 

33 

 A Balanced Product Portfolio

 Access to Better-For-You Products

 Transparency & Consumer Information

 Product Safety & Quality

34  People & Communities 

35 

37 

40 

42 

Employee Development, Engagement & Well-being

Diversity & Inclusion

Workplace Health & Safety

Community Engagement

45  Governance 

46 

47 

48 

Board Management & Oversight

Ethical Business Practices

ESG Materiality & Stakeholder Engagement

51  Appendix 

51 

52 

63 

Data Summary

Goal Methodology

Reporting Framework Indices  
(GRI, SASB Non-Alcoholic Bever ages,  
SASB Appliance Manufacturing, TCFD) 

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report 

2021 Corporate Responasibility Report  
 
 
Overview
Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix

A Letter from our Chairman &  
CEO and Chief Sustainability Officer 

At Keurig Dr Pepper, we recognize that a strong 

Making a meaningful difference requires an enduring 

environmental, social and governance (ESG) foundation 

commitment. Our long-term goals remain rooted 

provides opportunity to drive growth and create value for 

in near-term action where we can make real and 

our stakeholders. That has certainly been the case at KDP, 

lasting contributions. Our approach includes 

as we have advanced our ESG efforts every year. As we 
continue to make a positive impact through our Drink Well. 
Do Good. corporate responsibility platform, we are proud to 
share KDP’s progress and lessons learned along our journey, 

realistic glidepaths to targets that are created with 

intention and investment and supported by strategic 

partnerships and collaboration. For example, this 

year we set the aspirational goal to achieve net water 

along with aspirations and goals for the coming years.  

positive impact by 2050. This aspiration builds upon a 

This year, we responsibly sourced 100% of our coffee, cocoa 

and brewers, in line with our goals and laid important 

groundwork to expand sustainable sourcing programs 

to additional agricultural ingredients and manufacturing 

supply chains. We made significant progress in reducing 

our virgin plastic use by incorporating more recycled plastic, 

long-standing body of work at KDP to replenish water 

in local KDP communities facing high water-risk and 

maintain water-smart practices across our supply 

chain, both of which are supported through collective 

action and scale as a member of the United Nation’s 

Water Resilience Coalition.

redesigning packaging and exploring alternative materials, 

The bar for ESG performance continues to rise, 

even while navigating unprecedented supply chain 

and we continue to step up as a leader to meet the 

challenges for critical inputs during a time of high consumer 

challenge. Beyond pursuing the goals we have already 

demand for our products. In pursuit of our science-based 

set, we continue to explore new ways to accelerate 

emissions reductions targets, we achieved a cumulative 

our ambitions, as technology, policy and investment 

reduction in our Scope 3 emissions from our baseline, 

due, in part, to transitioning to packaging materials that 

produce lower emissions. We also expanded our offerings 

of and access to our better-for-you products, advanced 

our diversity and inclusion efforts and continued to give 
back to our communities. Across all our Drink Well. Do 
Good. efforts, our unique partnership philosophy enables 
us to maximize our scale and drive long-term impact, in 

opportunities develop and converge. The commitment 
and passion of the KDP team to drive our Drink Well. Do 
Good. agenda is at the heart of the significant progress 
we continue to make. Without wavering, the KDP 

team has demonstrated remarkable talent, agility and 

resilience and delivered tangible and measurable results 

that we can build upon in the future. We are inspired by 

their relentless pursuit of making a positive impact and 

collaboration with industry, non-profits and government. 

honored to present their great work in this report. 

Bob Gamgort 
Chairman & Chief Executive Officer

Monique Oxender
Chief Sustainability Officer

3

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview
Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix

Our Company

WHO WE ARE

A leading North American brand owner, manufacturer and distributor of non-alcoholic 

beverages in the U.S., Canada, Mexico and the Caribbean.

and consume beverages.

OUR VALUES

OUR VISION 

Provide a beverage for every need, available everywhere people shop 

$12.7B

in total net sales

$5.9B Packaged Beverages
$4.7B Coffee Systems
$1.5B Beverage Concentrates
$0.6B Latin American Beverages

8th Largest

Food & Beverage company in the U.S.1

~27,000

Employees

30

Manufacturing 
locations

150+

Principal warehouses/
distribution centers

North American Category Leadership2

#1 single-serve coffee brewing 
systems in the U.S. and Canada

#2 shelf-stable premium 
ready-to-drink tea in the U.S.

#1 flavored carbonated soft drinks in 
the U.S. and Canada; #2 in Mexico

#2 premium water in the U.S.;  
#1 mineral water in Mexico

#2 fruit juice/drinks 
in the U.S.

#1 mixers in the U.S.

KDP’s values define how we work together and are foundational to our culture.

Team first
Win together. Be the kind of person you want on your team.

Deliver big
Achieve our commitments. Then push beyond the expected.

Think bold
Challenge the usual. Dare to try something new.

Be fearless & fair
Tell the truth with courage. Listen and act with respect.

OUR BRANDS

A diverse portfolio of cold and hot beverages, which includes 125+ owned, 

licensed and partner brands, and the leading single-serve coffee brewing 

system in North America.

4

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment
Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix

Our Corporate  
Responsibility Strategy

Our Ambition:  
Ensure our beverages make  
a positive impact with every drink.

In all we do, we are committed to acting responsibly, and our 

ambition is to ensure our beverages make a positive impact with 

every drink. We focus on our greatest opportunities for impact in 

the environment, our supply chain, the health and well-being of our 

consumers and with our people and communities. We are committed 

to transparency and disclosure of corporate responsibility strategies, 

programs, progress and governance. 

The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 

The UN SDGs were developed to address the global challenges facing our 

current world and represent the transformative power of collective action. 

We have aligned our corporate responsibility strategy with the seven  

UN SDGs most relevant to our business.

ENVIRONMENT 

We are committed to reducing our environmental impacts 

while restoring resources in support of a regenerative and 

circular economy. From eliminating packaging waste to 

reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, we partner to 

protect and replenish the earth’s valuable resources.

SUPPLY CHAIN 

We use our buying power for good with a commitment to 

responsible sourcing across our supply chain. We work with 

suppliers and a range of innovative partners around the 

world to improve livelihoods and restore nature.

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

We strive to make a positive impact by offering a broad, 

well-balanced portfolio that is accessible to all consumers. 

We partner with leading organizations to accelerate our 

portfolio innovation and transparency.

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES 

We are committed to creating a work environment in which 

all voices are heard, employees feel supported and talent 

can thrive. Extending our efforts beyond our workplace, we 

engage locally to build strong, vibrant communities.

5

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview
Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix

Awards & Recognition

CANADA’S TOP 100 
EMPLOYERS

CANADA’S TOP EMPLOYERS 
FOR YOUNG PEOPLE

Selected as one of Canada’s Top 100 
Employers for the 5th consecutive year

Listed as one of Canada’s Top Employers 
for Young People for the 4th consecutive year

CDP DISCLOSURE 

Achieved an A- for leading on corporate 
action and transparency on water risk 
and a B for taking coordinated action on 
climate issues

CDP SUPPLIER  
ENGAGEMENT LEADER 

Earned an A for engagement suppliers  
on climate change

EMPRESA SOCIALMENTE 
RESPONSIBLE

Recognized as one of the Best Socially 
Responsible Companies from the Mexico 
Center of Philanthropy for the 16th 
consecutive year

FOOD ENGINEERING  
PLANT OF THE YEAR 

Awarded in 2021 for the Allentown, 
Pennsylvania, facility

FORBES HALO 100

Celebrated Dr Pepper as the top-ranked 
beverage brand named to Forbes’ Halo 
100, which highlights brands delivering the 
experience customers want

FORTUNE WORLD’S MOST  
ADMIRED COMPANIES

Named one of Fortune World’s  
Most Admired Companies for the  
3rd consecutive year

HUMAN RIGHTS CAMPAIGN  
BEST PLACES TO WORK FOR  
LGBTQ EQUALITY

Recognized as one of the Best  
Places to Work for LGBTQ+ Equality  
by Human Rights Campaign

NEWSWEEK AMERICA’S MOST 
RESPONSIBLE COMPANIES

Recognized for the 2nd consecutive year

REUTERS EVENTS RESPONSIBLE 
BUSINESS AWARDS

Won Reuters Responsible Business  
Award in the Social and Human Capital 
category for 20-year investment in the 
livelihoods of coffee farmers

WSJ MANAGEMENT TOP 250

Named one of top 250 most effectively 
managed U.S. companies in ranking  
from The Wall Street Journal and  
Drucker Institute

6

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview
Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix

Impact Throughout our Value Chain

1. SOURCING

We are committed to responsibly sourcing 

our priority inputs and our brewers. Across 

our global supply chain, KDP partners to 

promote natural resource protection, support 

regenerative agriculture and aspire for net 

positive water impact. We also safeguard 

human rights and invest in the livelihoods of 

workers and farmers. Through circular design 

and material innovation with supply chain 

partners, we are reducing our use of virgin 

plastic in packaging and products.

5. POST-CONSUMER

We invest in numerous initiatives to improve 

recycling infrastructure and recycling behaviors,  

most notably as a co-founder of The Recycling 

Partnership’s Polypropylene Recycling Coalition, 

the American Beverage Association’s Every 

Bottle Back program and the Circular Plastics 

Taskforce. Since 2014, KDP has committed over 

$40 million in support of a more circular economy 

through collaborative projects, partnerships and 

investments across North America.

2. PRODUCTION

At our manufacturing facilities, we 

collaborate to use water, energy and 

ingredients efficiently to produce our 

beverages. We are committed to sourcing 

electricity from renewable sources to 

reduce GHG emissions and dedicated 

to reducing, reusing and recycling 

all materials used in our production 

facilities. For all beverages and brewers 

that we manufacture and market, we 

apply our rigorous food safety and 

quality standards throughout every  

step of the product lifecycle.

3. DISTRIBUTION

Our distribution capabilities across  

North America enable us to align our 

operations with customers and sales 

channels so that our products are available 

to meet consumer demand and limit our 

climate impact. We are focused on reducing 

our GHG emissions through fleet fuel 

efficiency and network optimization in the 

near term, while supporting collaborations 

and advocacy aimed at investments in 

technology and infrastructure for future 

4. USE & CONSUMPTION   

We are responding to changing consumer preferences by evolving 

our product portfolio, offering choices that deliver beneficial 

nutrients, reduced calories or lower sugar. We are also focused 

on sustainability, with particular attention to increasing the 

fleet decarbonization.

recyclability of our product packaging as well as adding more 
products that use post-consumer recycled content.

7

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview
Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix

Goals & Progress

For detail on methodologies and boundaries for our goals, see our Goal Methodology Table.

Year

Goal

2019 Actual

2020 Actual

2021 Actual

2025

Convert 100% of packaging to be recyclable or compostable

2025

Use 30% post-consumer recycled content across our packaging portfolio

2025

Use 25% post-consumer recycled content in our plastic packaging

2025

Achieve a 20% virgin plastic reduction across our plastic packaging portfolio

2025

Send zero waste to landfill across our operations

Environment

2024

Engage bottlers and select suppliers representing 50% of Scope 3 emissions to set  
a science-based target

2025

Obtain 100% of electricity from renewable sources

2030

Reduce Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 30%

2030

Reduce Scope 3 emissions in select categories by 15%

2025

Improve our water use efficiency by 20% 

2025

Partner with our highest water-risk operating communities to replenish 100% of water  
used in our beverages in those communities

Supply Chain

2020

Responsibly source 100% of our brewers

Ongoing Responsibly source 100% of our coffee and cocoa

2030

Support regenerative agriculture and conservation on 250,000 acres of land

Health & Well-Being

2025

Provide positive hydration in 60% of our products

87%

20%

0.4%

N/A

88%

32%

47%

11%

0%

4%

73%

65%

63%

N/A

N/A

People & Communities

2025

Increase female representation in Director and above positions by 25% to 33% of the total 

N/A

2025

Increase people of color representation in Director and above positions by 25% to 21%  
of the total

N/A

90%

22%

2%

1%

92%

38%

50%

7%

-23%

7%

79%

92%

24%

11%

6%

92%

36%

62%

9%

3%

7%

85%

100%

100%*

86%

N/A

100%

N/A**

54%

56%

26%

17%

28%

17%

*During 2021, COVID-19 impacts and shipping delays resulted in a very small amount conventional coffee deliveries. In addition, 81% of our cocoa purchases  were 
responsibly sourced through third-party sourcing programs. By the end of 2021, all cocoa contracted to be received going forward was 100% responsibly sourced.

**Projects initiated in 2021 will deliver regenerative agriculture and conservation benefits beginning in 2022. 

8

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Environment

We are working to reduce our environmental impact 

while restoring resources in support of a circular 

economy and climate resilience across our value chain.

In addition to threatening natural ecosystems, climate change creates 

a wide range of risks for businesses, from operational and workforce 

disruption to resource and supply scarcity. Across environmental impacts, 

KDP is advancing mitigation efforts by working to reduce resource use and 

increase resiliency measures that acknowledge a changing environment, 

including more frequent and severe weather events.

I N  T H I S   S E C T I O N

Circular Economy

Climate, Emissions & Energy

Water Efficiency & Stewardship

9

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment
Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix

Circular Economy

Circular Design

the recycling process, further enhancing the quality of the 

Our material use strategy is centered on the advancement 

recycled material coming from these bottles for potential 

of circularity throughout the lifecycle of our products and 

reuse in new products.

2025   G OA L S

P R O G R E SS 
T H O U G H O U T  202 1

Convert 100% of 

packaging to be  

recyclable or compostable

92%

ACHIEVED

Use 30% post-consumer 

recycled content across our 

packaging portfolio

24%

ACHIEVED

Use 25% post-consumer 

recycled content in our 

plastic packaging

11%

ACHIEVED

Achieve a 20% virgin plastic 

reduction across our plastic 

packaging portfolio

6%

ACHIEVED

Send zero waste to landfill 

across our operations

92%

ACHIEVED

packaging. Our vision is a future in which the materials we 

use can be recycled, reused or repurposed. In support of 

this vision, we are using smart design to reduce the amount 

of material used and eliminate non-recyclable materials. 

For instance, we eliminated the use of non-recyclable rigid 

polystyrene from our primary packaging portfolio in 2020. 

Beyond the material, the colors used and how caps and 

labels are designed affect how compatible our packaging 

is with plastics recycling systems. KDP cross-functional 

teams work to meet our established goals and scale 

sustainability attributes across our packaging supply chain 

through material science and manufacturing partnerships, 

leveraging third-party design standards and guidelines, such 
as the APR Design® Guide for Plastics Recyclability.

We also know consumer education is a key consideration 

to encourage more and better recycling behaviors. We 

are taking action by updating our on-pack messaging 

in order to make “recycle right” instructions more visible 

to our consumers. For example, as part of the redesign 

of our Snapple bottles, our packaging team developed 

a contoured bottle with increased label space for 

consumer recycling instructions. We are also enhancing 

our recyclability messaging for our K-Cup pods* to remind 

consumers to verify whether coffee pods are accepted in 
their municipality’s recycling program3. We are also adding 
the How2Recycle® label across a broader portion of our 

packaging portfolio. Beyond education, we are making design 

improvements to make it easier for consumers to prepare 

In 2021, we made progress against our goal to convert 100% 

our products for recycling. Recently, our Green Mountain 

of packaging to be recyclable or compostable. Progress   

Coffee Roasters and Van Houtte brands introduced select 

was primarily due to design improvements that replaced  

K-Cup pod varieties with a new lid design that features a 

the labels on select polyethylene terephthalate (PET) bottles. 

built-in tab that allows consumers to more easily empty the 

Specifically, improved materials on the shrink sleeves of 

grounds and prepare the pod for the recycling stream. KDP 

our Snapple 16 oz. and Core Hydration bottles are now 

plans to roll out the easy-peel lid to more K-Cup pod varieties 

completely compatible with the PET recycling process. These 

over time. These actions are critical to our efforts to help 

new labels contain water-soluble inks that wash off during 

increase recycling rates among consumers.

KEURIG DR PEPPER 2021 PACKAGING MIX (PERCENT)

32

27

14

10

8

4** 3

2

Paper/
Cardboard

PET Bottles

Non-Refillable
Glass Bottles

Polypropylene

Other

Flex
Packaging

Refillable
Glass Bottles

Aluminum
and Steel

*Check locally - not recycled in many communities.
**Other materials include packaging formats or categories that amount to less than 1%, by mass, of KDP packaging. 

See Data Summary for additional packaging data.

10

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix

Virgin Plastic Reduction and Innovation

KDP is committed to reducing our virgin plastic use by 20% 

across our product packaging portfolio by 2025. Important 

to this reduction will be incorporating more post-consumer 

recycled (PCR) content, eliminating unnecessary materials, 

redesigning packaging and exploring reuse and refill models. 

We have continued to progress toward our goal of 25% PCR 

plastic content in packaging by 2025. Our improvement in 

2021 was primarily the result of completing the transition 

of Core Hydration, 16 oz. Snapple and several Aguafiel 

varieties to bottles made of 100% recycled polyethylene 

terephthalate (rPET) plastic. This reduced the need to use 
approximately 57 million pounds of virgin plastic in 20214. 
Though COVID-19 has challenged the availability of recycled 

content for the industry, the efforts of our Research and 

Development, Procurement and Supply Chain teams are 

keeping us on track to achieve our 2025 PCR commitments.

In 2021, KDP partnered with packaging manufacturer 

PAPACKS to accelerate development of KDP’s first fully 

recyclable and compostable paper bottle. Unlike other 

beverage packaging alternatives that use plant-based 

PET plastic or sustainably sourced pulp with polymer 

lining, we hope to leverage PAPACKS’ technology to 

create a 100% plastic-free bottle. The goal is that the 

entire package, including bottle, label, cap and closure, 

is compostable or can be recycled alongside other paper 

products. We expect to begin testing the new bottle 

prototype with KDP beverages in late 2022 and will work 

closely with recyclers and composters to understand how 

this performs within existing systems.

Beyond material innovation, we provide consumers  

various options to enjoy our beverages in formats or  

on-premise locations that offer reduced packaging  

used per serving. Examples include multi-serve  

products in categories, such as juices and batch-brewed 

We are also creating and testing innovative packaging 

coffee, as well as traditional fountain drinks ideal for 

solutions that will further reduce our plastic footprint. 

refillable containers.

RECYCLED CONTENT  
IN BREWERS

We continue to reduce virgin plastic 

used in our Keurig coffee makers. 

Our K-Mini, K-Mini Plus and K-Café 

Essentials all contain at least 50% PCR 

plastic. In addition, our K-Compact, 

K-Slim and K-Supreme Plus and 

K-Supreme Plus SMART brewers all 

contain at least 30% PCR content.

KEY DEFINITIONS

Recyclable Packaging: 

Packaging for which design is not a barrier to the 

packaging being successfully collected, sorted 

and reprocessed into another material, a product 

component or a recycled raw material. Packaging 

we consider to be recyclable includes materials 

and formats for which recovery, sortation and end 

markets exist or can practically be scaled across 

North America, noting that many communities may 

not accept or sort certain materials or formats today.

Circular Economy and Circularity: 

Terms used to describe the efforts made by KDP and 

peers to develop packaging and systems to support 

the reuse, recycling, repurposing or composting of 

products and packaging with a desire to design 

waste out of the system and reduce the demand  

for non-renewable resources.

11

Overview

Environment
Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix

Recycling Advocacy and  
Infrastructure Investments

Building a circular economy requires leadership from 

companies and all levels of government to modernize and 

standardize recycling infrastructure. In the U.S., inadequate 

investment, a patchwork of regulations and lack of minimum 

performance standards across more than 9,000 recycling 
programs5 is preventing economies of scale in our recycling 
systems and confusing consumers. That is why KDP supports 

smart policy solutions focused on efficient and equitable 

ways to increase material recovery, while reducing the 

economic and environmental costs of disposal. Our advocacy 

is focused on enhancing consumer education and access to 

collection infrastructure and promoting Extended Producer 

Responsibility (EPR) programs that seek to generate strong 

environmental outcomes in an efficient and accountable 

manner, provide convenient services to consumers and create 

a financially and operationally sustainable circular economy. 

Under a national and/or regional EPR program, consumer 

brands would pay a packaging fee based on a series of 

attributes that would be collected by a Producer Responsibility 

Organization and then invested for improvements to recycling 

systems. The goal of these investments is to increase access  

to recycling and provide higher quality systems to move closer 

to a truly circular economy. 

COLLECTIVE ACTION FOR CIRCULARITY

We partner with and are members of many 

organizations across the plastics value chain.

Further, KDP has co-founded three industry coalitions and works with a variety of partners to invest in initiatives 

that amplify both dollars and action for recycling infrastructure and consumer education. Since 2014, KDP has 

committed over $40 million in support of a more circular economy through collaborative projects, partnerships  

and investments across North America. These projects include:

THE POLYPROPYLENE RECYCLING COALITION 

KDP uses polypropylene plastic in our K-Cup pods*, Mott’s Applesauce cups 
and a variety of bottle closures. In 2020, KDP co-founded and became the 

largest funder of The Recycling Partnership’s Polypropylene Recycling Coalition 

with the goal to increase the quantity and quality of polypropylene recovered 

and recycled in the U.S. As of April 2022, the Coalition has awarded more than 

$6 million in funding to 20 local materials recovery facilities, which will increase 

polypropylene recycling access for an incremental 18 million Americans upon 

the installation of the new equipment during 2022. 

EVERY BOTTLE BACK

Every Bottle Back (EBB) is committed to increasing plastic bottle recycling 

through a $100 million industry investment that is being matched with 

additional funding for collective resources of $400 million. Since co-founding 

EBB in 2019 with industry peers and the American Beverage Association 

(ABA), our partnership has invested $14.3 million in 13 U.S. communities. 

These investments are helping households recycle nearly 698 million 
additional pounds of PET plastic over 10 years6. As part of the initiative,  
we are promoting a “Recycle with the Cap On” message and investing in  

a rPET manufacturing facility to help boost the supply of food-grade rPET 

content for beverage bottles.

CIRCULAR PLASTICS TASKFORCE 

In 2020, KDP Canada co-founded the Circular Plastics Taskforce (CPT) 

dedicated to advancing the circular economy by optimizing plastics recycling. 

Along with our partners from Cascades, Danone Canada, Dyne a Pak, TC 

Transcontinental, the Chemistry Industry Association of Canada (CIAC) and  
Eco Entreprises Québec, CPT released a white paper7 in 2021 that summarizes 
five key findings and 18 recommendations to improve the management of  

post-consumer recycled plastics in Canada. In 2022, CPT will deploy  
industrial-scale pilot projects in recycling and processing facilities.

*Check locally - not recycled in many communities.

12

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment
Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix

Zero Waste to Landfill

Achieving zero waste to landfill from our manufacturing 

facilities is an important part of our circular economy 

ambitions. This commitment involves reducing, reusing 

and recycling our waste in creative ways. Despite 

pandemic-related challenges in 2021, KDP kept 92% of 

our manufacturing waste out of landfills and we remain 

on track to meet our 2025 goal. 

We value the site champions we have in many of our 

locations who are working hard to get employees 

actively engaged in waste diversion. In our hot beverage 

manufacturing network, more than 99% of our waste 

was kept from landfills by composting coffee grounds, 

recycling filter paper scrap and burlap coffee bean bags 

and converting waste to energy. 

Looking ahead, we will continue to pursue a range of 

inventive waste reduction strategies and collaborations 

across our operations.

REDUCING WASTE SENT TO LANDFILL

Spotlight: 

20

15

10

5

0

14%

I

E
N
L
E
S
A
B

8%

L
A
U
T
C
A

6pp

REDUCTION
from 2018-2021

2018

2021

INNOVATIONS IN REDUCING WASTE

KDP Canada has explored different re-use partnerships for by-product from our Montreal manufacturing 

facility. In 2021, several insulation companies began repurposing KDP’s paper filter scraps as eco-material 

for insulation. A local specialized composting facility was able to use coffee grounds in its fertilizer, while a 

Montreal borough used coffee grounds as a replacement for sand and gravel to help generate traction on 

icy paths and trails.  

To support our workplace customers in reducing waste, we continue to offer our K-Cycle recycling and 

composting program. Working with recycling partners, this service collects high-volume bins of brewed 

K-Cup pods and recycles the pod plastic and aluminum lid. The coffee or tea and filter become organic 

compost. Since the inception of the program in 2011, nearly six million pounds of pods collected through  

the program have been kept out of landfills. 

13

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix

Climate, Emissions 
& Energy

Climate Action Approach

The latest science indicates that severe weather 
events are accelerating8, and the bar is rising across all 
sectors of business to judiciously assess, disclose and 

Looking ahead, we aim to make progress toward our existing 

emissions reduction goals with the tools and technologies 

available to us today and explore ways to accelerate our 

reductions in the future as technology, policy and investment 

opportunities develop. We will continue to use science-based 

202 4   G OA L

P R O G R E SS 
T H O U G H O U T  202 1

Engage bottlers and select 

suppliers representing 50% 

of Scope 3 emissions to set 

a science-based target

36%

ACHIEVED

2025   G OA L

Obtain 100% of electricity 

from renewable sources

P R O G R E SS 
T H O U G H O U T  202 1

62%

ACHIEVED

ultimately take action to mitigate GHG emissions and 

targets (SBTs) that are aimed at reducing GHG emissions 

other climate-related risks. At KDP, the use of credible 

across our value chain, remaining mindful of evolving science 

standards, robust disclosure and viable glidepaths to 

and guidance, such as SBTi’s 1.5°C guidance pathway. We are 

goals remain core to our strategy. Our current 2030 

committed to continually assessing the risks climate change 

emissions-reduction targets, validated by the Science 

poses to our business and identifying near-term and long-

Based Target initiative (SBTi), are aligned to levels 

required to meet the Paris Agreement climate change 
goal of limiting global warming to well below 2°C9.

term strategies to help mitigate climate-related risks. For 
more details, see our CDP Climate disclosure and our Task 
Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Index.

OUR PATH TO 2030

2020 – 2025 

•  Engage bottlers and select suppliers representing 50% of Scope 3 emissions to 

set a science-based target

•  Obtain 100% of electricity from renewable sources

2025 – 2030 

•  Reduce Scope 1 & 2 emissions by 30%
•  Reduce Scope 3 emissions in select categories by 15%
•  Encourage our value chain partners to set and make progress against science-based 

2030  G OA L S

P R O G R E SS 
T H O U G H O U T  202 1

targets and transition to low carbon energy

•  Scale regenerative agriculture solutions across the value chain

Reduce Scope 1 & 2 

emissions by 30%

Reduce Scope 3 emissions in 

select categories by 15%

9%

ACHIEVED

3%

ACHIEVED

2030 – ON

•  Scale decarbonization of our fleet, including heavy-duty trucks, to electric and low carbon fuels
•  Explore sustainable, low carbon fuels for our manufacturing operations
•  Scale low carbon packaging solutions across brand portfolio

BUILDING CLIMATE 
RESILIENCE

We assess climate change risks most 

important to our business so that 

we can identify opportunities and 

implement measures that help build 

climate resiliency for the communities 

and regions in which we operate.

Supply chain 
disruptions from 
changing  
weather patterns

R I S K

Drought and 
water issues

Carbon  
tax

Stress on energy 
systems

O P P O R T U N I T Y

Regenerative 
Agriculture

Water  
stewardship and 
replenishment

Fleet 
electrification 
when available  
at scale

Transition  
to renewable  
energy

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment
Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix

OUR CLIMATE STRATEGY FOCUS AREAS:

KDP’s climate strategy is focused in six key areas.

Pursuing energy 
efficiency and 
energy reduction 
for our operations 
and products

Secured Leadership in 
Energy and Environmental 
Design (LEED) Gold 
certification for 
Commercial Interiors at 
new co-headquarters 
in Frisco, Texas. LEED 
provides a framework for 
designing and operating 
efficient, carbon and cost-
saving buildings10.

Decarbonizing  
our fleet 

Continuing our 
transition to low 
carbon energy

Engaging with our 
value chain partners 
on our shared  
climate journey

Investing in 
infrastructure 
development  
and consumer 
behavior change

Building climate 
resilience into our 
operations and  
supply chain

Closed a two-year pilot 
of electric forklifts in our 
Jacksonville, Florida, and Dallas, 
Texas, distribution centers, 
which reduced each facility’s 
forklift fleet emissions by 67%11. 

K E Y   H I G H L I G H T S   F R O M   2 0 2 1

Expanded renewable electricity 
procurement activities to source 
62% of our electricity needs 
from renewable resources, a  
10 point improvement 
versus 2020. As part of this 
progress, our new Allentown, 
Pennsylvania, facility 
transitioned to 100% renewable 
electricity during the year.

Sourced rPET to complete  
the transition of Core 
Hydration, 16 oz. Snapple and 
Aguafiel varieties to bottles 
made of 100% recycled plastic. 
Bottles made with rPET 
produce about 30% less  
GHG emissions compared to 
bottles made of virgin plastic12, 
in addition to reducing our use  
of virgin plastic.

L O O K I N G   A H E A D

Continued investment in 
recycling access, education   
and infrastructure, which 
provides the opportunity for 
emissions reductions from 
recycling versus landfill13.

Continued investment in 
World Coffee Research, 
driving agricultural 
innovation to enhance 
productivity of climate-
resilient farming to support 
farmer profitability. 

Initiate Strategic  
Energy Management 
(SEM) programs that 
encourage periodic reviews 
of energy consumption 
and sustain energy 
reductions over time at 
manufacturing sites. 

Phase in electric forklifts  
across all distribution centers 
and warehouses by 2026,  
while exploring new and 
emerging technologies for 
broader fleet decarbonization  
at scale, including the  
heavy-duty trucks that  
distribute our beverages.

Build a portfolio of additional, 
long-term renewable energy 
opportunities to achieve 
our 100% goal across our 
operations, which may include 
on-site solar, retail renewable 
electricity products, power 
purchase agreements, 
investments in infrastructure 
and green tariffs. 

Drive accelerated progress to 
develop tools and processes 
to measure value chain 
decarbonization.

Support industry collaboration,  
advocacy and legislation aimed 
at investments in technology 
and infrastructure to further 
reduce GHG emissions in the 
areas of U.S. recycling and  
truck fleets.

Build programs supporting 
regenerative agriculture for 
our top climate-sensitive 
crops, drawing carbon out 
of the atmosphere and 
creating climate resiliency.

15

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment
Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix

2021 Climate Progress

In total, our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions in 2021 were 

9% less than our 2018 baseline, due to an increase 

in renewable electricity and positive results from a 

variety of energy efficiency initiatives throughout our 

operations. For example, all of our coffee roasting 
plants14 achieved year-over-year improvements in 
roasting efficiency with an overall 1.4% network-wide 

reduction in energy use per pound of coffee roasted. 

We reduced emissions from our selected Scope 3 categories 

by 3% from the 2018 baseline. This decrease was primarily 

driven by improving the energy efficiency of our Keurig 

brewers, by designing them with more efficient  

flow-through heaters that consume up to an estimated 

70% less energy, compared to earlier Keurig brewer 

models that use hot water tanks. Also contributing to 

this significant improvement was the transition of some 

packaging from glass to PET and rPET, which helped to 

reduce our overall packaging lifecycle emissions for those 

products. We are also working to engage suppliers and 

bottlers representing 50% of our Scope 3 emissions to set 

their own SBTs and, in 2021, our engagement was at 36%, 

reflecting a gain of three new suppliers with SBTs as well as 

a loss of two prior companies as suppliers to KDP. 

As members of the Supplier Leadership on Climate 

Transition Consortium (S-LoCT), we are collaborating to 

deliver training and resources for suppliers setting SBTs 

and navigating the transition to a low-carbon future. 

KDP is also part of the EPA SmartWay program focused 

on documenting and improving transport emissions, and 

we partner with the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) and 

CDP to advance supplier engagement. 

SCOPE 1 & 2 GHG EMISSIONS 
BY CATEGORY

SCOPE 3 GHG EMISSIONS 
BY CATEGORY*

SCOPE  
1 & 2

43%

Fleet

35%

Fuel

22%

Electricity

SCOPE  
3

28%

Third-party 
Manufacturing

21%

Packaging

20%

Ingredients

15%

Logistics

10%

Other*

6%

Use of Products

ESTIMATED SHARE OF CARBON EMISSIONS THROUGHOUT OUR VALUE CHAIN

Sourcing

Production

Distribution

Use & Consumption

Post-Consumer

73%

7.62

6.65

4%

15%

5%

1%

1.50

1.50

0.38

0.38

0.67

0.56

0.09

0.12

2020 2021

2020

2021

2020

2021

2020

2021

2020

2021

GHG Emissions (Thousand MTCO2e)

* Ingredients and packaging are included in purchased goods and services; logistics includes upstream and downstream 
transportation and distribution; other includes employee commuting, business travel, upstream energy related, capital 
goods, professional services, etc. A more detailed breakdown of Scope 3 emissions can be found in the Data Summary.

16

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment
Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix

Water Efficiency 
& Stewardship 

During 2021, we improved the efficiency of our water use and 

required 1.82 liters of water per liter of final product, a 7% 
improvement in water use ratio from our baseline15. Our goal 
is to improve our water use efficiency by 20% by 2025.

2025   G OA L

P R O G R E SS 
T H O U G H O U T  202 1

Improve our water use 

efficiency by 20%

7%

ACHIEVED

2030  G OA L

P R O G R E SS 
T H O U G H O U T  202 1

Partner with our highest 

water-risk operating 

communities to replenish 100% 

of water used in our beverages 

in those communities

85%

ACHIEVED

LITERS OF WATER REQUIRED TO 
MAKE ONE LITER OF PRODUCT

2

1

0

1.95

I

E
N
L
E
S
A
B

1.82

L
A
U
T
C
A

2017

2021

7%

IMPROVEMENT
from 2017-2021

“

  KDP’s engagement in the Water 

Resilience Coalition moves us forward 

Water Efficiency in Operations 

Water is essential to our industry as a vital natural resource 

used in operations and products. At all of our cold beverage 

bottling sites, we focus on best practices for water use 

measurement and management coupled with ongoing 

improvement activities. Our water optimization team, a 

cross-functional team made up of representatives from 

Engineering, Sustainability, Environment, Health and 

Safety and Plant Operations, is tasked with this continuous 
improvement, including implementing water saving projects.

in our goal for companies to work 

together to accelerate progress on the 

global water and climate challenge. Its 

members, businesses with $3.5 trillion in 

market capitalization, are collaborating 

in geographies of shared interest to 

address water stress and to build more 

water resilient systems.”

– Jason Morrison, President, Pacific Institute, Head,  

CEO Water Mandate

We aspire to achieve Net 
Positive Water Impact by 2050.

Spotlight: 

WATER RESILIENCE COALITION 

We recently announced our aspiration to achieve 
Net Positive Water Impact by 205016, which 
builds on KDP’s existing water stewardship 

commitments. To help scale the work we have 

underway through collective action, in early 2022 

we joined the Water Resilience Coalition (WRC). 

The WRC is an industry-driven coalition of the 

CEO Water Mandate, a partnership between the 
UN Global Compact and the Pacific Institute,  

that aims to elevate global water stress and 

its connection to climate change to the top of 

the corporate agenda and preserve the world’s 

freshwater resources through collective action 

and ambitious, quantifiable commitments.

17

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment
Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix

Water Replenishment

In late 2020, KDP completed a comprehensive water 

on the 2030 projected volume of water used in products at 

Water is a shared resource that is important to the 

risk assessment, leveraging expanded tools including 

these sites and the volume of water used to brew coffee 

health of communities and ecosystems. In 2019, KDP 

the World Resources Institute’s Aqueduct Water Risk 

set a goal to partner with our highest water-risk 

Atlas, WWF’s Water Risk Filter, key crop databases 

operating communities to replenish 100% of water 

and individual KDP manufacturing site surveys. Our 

used in our beverages produced at those sites by 

assessment included all of our production facilities and 

2025. Through collaborations with local partners, 

11 priority raw material inputs, including agricultural 

with our pods. For more information on our water risk 
methodology, see our CDP Water responses.

Regenerative Agriculture & Conservation

KDP has conducted on-the-ground conservation 

commodities, such as coffee and sweeteners, as well as 

Approximately 96% of our water footprint comes from 

projects that have enhanced watersheds, protected 

some packaging. Based upon further in-depth analysis in 

indirect water use by our suppliers to grow our agricultural 

habitats and conserved water. This, in turn, is leading 

2021, KDP identified four additional manufacturing sites 

raw materials. While our most recent risk assessment 

to long-term impact in watersheds that are critical 

in areas of high-water risk, in addition to the original six 

found overall water quantity risks are low for all currently 

to sustaining healthy ecosystems and strengthening 

we identified as part of our original target. 

traced priority raw materials, we are taking action to 

climate resilience, as long as conservation efforts in 

safeguard water at the farm level. Regenerative agriculture 

watersheds are sustained over time. As of the end of 

Therefore, we are expanding the scope of our 100% 

practices can protect and restore the water required for the 

2021, we have replenished 85% of the water used in 

water replenishment goal to include 10 high-risk water 

KDP beverages in the six highest water-risk  

sites and extending the time horizon of our goal to 

production of raw ingredients that go into our beverages. 
For more information, visit the Supply Chain.

operating communities identified in our original  

2030. Now included are all of our manufacturing sites in 

scope. For an overview of KDP’s local water projects,  
see our Water Projects Map.

California, Florida, Texas and Mexico, with threats that 

span from drought to floods. This revised target is based 

18

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix

2021 Water Stewardship Projects

1.  INFRASTRUCTURE 
IMPROVEMENT
Vernon, California

Working with the Water Replenishment 
District of Southern California 
to create infrastructure that will 
deliver brackish groundwater to an 
underutilized desalting facility to treat 
0.6 million gallons of water per day, 
increasing the water supply for the 
Los Angeles metro area.

4.  FOREST PROTECTION  
AND CONSERVATION
Tecámac, State of Mexico

Protecting forests in the 
upper watershed of the 
Izta-Popo National Park to 
promote water catchment and 
groundwater recharge in places 
that provide water for Mexico 
City’s metropolitan area, as 
well as the conservation of 
habitat for a variety of species.

2.  SHORING UP WATER LEVELS

Lake Mead, Arizona, Nevada & California

5.  PROTECTING WILD LANDS
Trinity River, State of Texas

Joining over 15 organizations that 
collaborate with the Colorado River 
Indian Tribes to conserve 150,000  
acre-feet of its Colorado River water, 
directly shoring up declining water levels 
in Lake Mead and increasing water 
supply reliability throughout the lower 
Colorado River Basin states.

Contributing to ecosystem integrity 
and safeguarding the natural 
sources of water, biodiversity and 
bio-cultural heritage in natural 
landscapes by promoting analog 
agroforestry techniques and 
passive conservation. 

3.  VEGETATIVE LAND RESTORATION
Municipality of Tlajomulco de Zuñiga, 

Jalisco Mexico

6.  WETLAND  

REHABILITATION
Miami, Florida

Addressing shared water challenges 
as part of a first-of-its-kind industry 
collaboration to restore riparian 
land important to the region’s water 
quality and quantity through native 
vegetation planting and water 
infrastructure improvements.

Restoring Corkscrew Swamp 
Sanctuary’s marshes and 
wet prairies via a multi-year 
restoration process to improve 
water resources and encourage 
biologically diverse, high 
functioning wetlands. 

2

1

Partners:

5

6

3

4

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report 

19
19

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Supply Chain

We use our buying power for good, pursuing 

responsible sourcing and building resiliency 

across our supply chain.

Ongoing complications from the pandemic, disruptions in global supply 

chains and concerns regarding climate change have prompted companies 

Responsible Sourcing

everywhere to build stronger resilience to supply chain interruptions and 

sourcing challenges. KDP works with suppliers and a range of innovative 

partners to drive positive impact in key priority areas, including natural 

resource protection, climate resilience, human rights and the livelihoods 

Nature

of the workers and farmers who make our business possible. 

Livelihoods

I N  T H I S   S E C T I O N

20

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain
Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix

Responsible 
Sourcing

O N G O I N G   G OA L

P R O G R E SS 
T H O U G H O U T  202 1

Responsibly source our brewers 

and 100% of our priority inputs:

Responsibly sourced coffee

Responsibly sourced cocoa

Responsibly sourced brewers

100%

ACHIEVED

100%

ACHIEVED

100%

ACHIEVED

Keurig Dr Pepper is the largest buyer 

of Fair Trade Certified coffee in the 

world for the 12th consecutive year17.

Integrated Supplier Management

KDP sources agricultural ingredients, Keurig brewer 

components and packaging raw materials from 

communities and ecosystems around the world, each with 

its own regional challenges. In 2021, we announced an 

expanded goal to responsibly source not only our coffee 

and brewers, but also 100% of the other ingredients we 

define as priority inputs, which currently include cocoa, 

apples, apple juice concentrate and corn (high-fructose 
corn syrup)18. Priority status is determined by the raw 
material’s importance to KDP by magnitude of spending 

for the ingredient, its social and environmental risk profile 

and our unique opportunity for impact within the supply 

chain. Responsible sourcing issues are varied and complex, 

so we use a combination of complementary tools and 

approaches to address them:

•  Risk assessment – KDP leverages third-party risk data, 
industry resources and audit results for our priority 

inputs and brewer components to assess geographic 
and supply chain sourcing risks19. Based on this 
information, we then prioritize our efforts on the raw 

materials or geographies we deem the highest risk.

•  Certification or verification – Where available, we use 

third-party sustainable sourcing programs or standards to 

safeguard fundamental protections for specific ingredients 

or raw materials. While these programs are an important 

step in managing risk on key issues, we also invest in 

addressing the root causes of key issues like forced labor.  

•  Traceability and transparency – We rely on several 
strategies to pursue supply chain transparency and 

product traceability back to the factory, region or farm 

level, informing purchasing decisions and risk assessments. 

•  Audits – KDP works with accredited third-party 
auditing programs to evaluate and address the 
performance of specific high-risk suppliers 20 working 
conditions across the areas of labor, health and safety, 

environment and business ethics. We are expanding 

the scope of these audits to additional suppliers and 

ingredient categories over time, with our historic focus 

on coffee and appliance supply chains.

•  Industry engagement and collaborative investments – 
We collaborate with both industry and NGOs to drive 

for positive impact and achieve greater scale.  

See the Appendix for KDP’s specific responsible  
sourcing methodologies.

The KDP Supplier Code of Conduct is the foundation of 
our commitment to responsibly source our products, and 

we ask our most important and/or high-risk suppliers to 

review and sign the Code each year. The document outlines 

key compliance criteria and addresses issues such as labor 

risks, employee health and safety, environmental impacts 

and safe management of agrochemicals. When applicable, 

we define further standards specific to a particular 
ingredient or product21. Additionally, we have established 
an integrated operating model within our Procurement 

function aimed at fully embedding responsible sourcing 

practices into KDP’s processes and procedures, such 

as buyer training, contracting, supplier selection and 

onboarding and supplier performance evaluation. For more 
on our Human Rights commitments, visit Governance.

SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN FRAMEWORK

Interconnected environmental and social issues require 

holistic solutions. 

Protect, restore 
and manage for 
the future

RE
ATU
N

L

I

V

E

L

I

H

O

O

Promote well-being  
  and prosperity within 
     an inclusive value chain

D

S

RESPONSIBLE SOURCING

Safeguard fundamental human rights 
and environmental protections

21

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain
Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix

At the Farm

Coffee and Cocoa 

KDP sources coffee for our own brands and for certain 

partner brands. All of these beans are included in our 100% 

responsibly sourced commitment. We source our coffee 

across Latin America, Africa and Asia and, in 2021, the total 

volume of green coffee beans we received was more than 

278 million pounds. KDP is a relatively small cocoa buyer, 

which is used in our Yoo-Hoo, Cafe Escapes and partner 

brand hot cocoas. We source cocoa from a variety of 

countries situated near the equator and achieved our  

100% responsibly sourced goal for cocoa in 2021. 

For both ingredients, we use third-party certification or 

verification programs to safeguard fundamental social, 

environmental and economic protections. All of our accepted 

programs consist of supplier requirements relevant to the 

specific ingredient and cover focus areas such as labor risks, 

employee health and safety, climate adaptation, biodiversity, 

agrichemical use and ecosystem protection. 

KDP’S ACCEPTED THIRD-PARTY CERTIFICATION 
OR VERIFICATION PROGRAMS

Coffee

Cocoa

Fairtrade International

Fair Trade USA

The Rainforest Alliance/UTZ

4C

AtSource Entry 
Verified by ofi

Great Lakes Coffee 
MaxTRACE

ROOT CAUSES OF COFFEE 
SECTOR LABOR RISK IN BRAZIL 
AND COLOMBIA 

Beyond purchasing 100% of our coffee via third-

party certification or verification programs, we also 

invest in impact projects that help address broader 

issues outside of our direct influence. Since 2015, KDP 

has partnered with Verité, a nonprofit committed to 

illuminating and remedying labor rights violations 

in supply chains to the benefit of workers and 

companies alike. With $2.2 million in funding from the 

U.S. Department of Labor’s Bureau of International 

Labor Affairs, Verité is implementing the Cooperation 

On Fair, Free, Equitable Employment (COFFEE) 

project. To complement the initiative, in 2021 KDP 

provided co-funding for two pilot projects: 

•  Ethical labor recruitment in Brazil. Verité is 

examining recruitment practices and working 

conditions and then providing tools and training  

to help reduce related risks.

•  Living wage in Colombia. Verité’s living wage and 
living income study will help in the identification 

and evaluation of alternatives to piece-rate 

pay to support better working conditions for 

vulnerable workers, while helping farmers 

mitigate their financial risk.

22

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain
Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix

Apples and Corn 

To make Mott’s Applesauce, KDP sources whole, fresh 

apples directly from U.S. growers with no traders or 

processors acting as intermediaries. The vast majority are 

grown by over 100 predominantly multi-generation family 

farmers in upstate New York. A smaller number of KDP’s 

apples are sourced from Washington state. 

Corn is part of KDP’s supply chain through our purchase 

of high-fructose corn syrup for our beverages. Our 

traceability work with suppliers shows that the vast 

majority of our high-fructose corn syrup comes from 

corn grown in the U.S., with a smaller minority sourced 

from Mexico. We are working to define an appropriate 

approach to responsibly sourced apples and corn that 

accurately reflects a primarily domestic sourcing footprint. 

Our primary focus for positive impact for KDP’s corn and 

apple crops is in our Nature and Livelihood impact areas. 

Our initial work in apple juice concentrate is focused on 

our supplier factories, but we will push toward farm-level 

engagement over time.

At the Factory

KDP’s Auditing Program Evolution 

As validated by audits completed in March 2022, we 

achieved our commitment of 100% responsibly sourced 

brewers for the scope of suppliers included when we set 

the goal back in 2017. In 2021, we expanded the scope 

of our auditing program to include a larger portion 

of brewer component suppliers, as well as high-risk 

suppliers of apple juice concentrate. This expansion 

significantly increased the number and variety of 

facilities included in our manufacturing responsible 

sourcing program. To accommodate the broader range 

of suppliers, we evolved our methodology to evaluate 

supplier performance across product categories and a 
range of accredited third-party auditing programs22. 
Based on those results, we apply a uniform scoring 

system to rate each facility’s performance.  

With our new methodology, we consider factory 

production responsibly sourced if it earns an audit score 

that meets or exceeds KDP’s social and environmental 

standards. When facilities receive a “needs 

improvement” rating, they must remediate their issues 

within three months with verification by a third-party 

auditor. Production at factories with a “not acceptable” 

finding is suspended until issues are remediated. In 2022, 

we will continue to expand our responsible sourcing 

program for factory suppliers across additional brewer 

component suppliers and other categories such as 

aluminum and sweeteners. For more audit details on 
KDP’s manufactured inputs, see the Appendix.

SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN PARTNERS

KDP SUPPLIER RATING SYSTEM

Rating

Description

Exceeds Expectations

Leadership performance

Meets Expectations

Foundational compliance

Needs Improvement

Performing below minimum 

compliance standards

Not Acceptable

Zero tolerance issues or 

continuous performance 

below expectations

2021 MANUFACTURING AUDIT SCORE SUMMARY

20

15

10

5

0

Brewers

Apple Juice Concentrate

Exceeds Expectations

Meets Expectations

Needs Improvement

Not Acceptable

23

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain
Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix

Brewers

Our brewers are made of materials and components 

from all over the world and are largely manufactured 

in Indonesia, Thailand, Malaysia and China. In 

2017, we set a goal to responsibly source 100% of 

our brewers from key suppliers by 2020, defining 

suppliers as responsibly sourced if their factory 
achieved a Silver-level recognition23 with the 
Responsible Business Alliance (RBA), the largest 

industry coalition focused on corporate social 

responsibility in global supply chains. While we 

were unable to reach our 100% goal in 2020, due to 

COVID-19-related supply chain disruptions, we are 

proud to report that 100% of all facilities in that 
initial scope24 of key suppliers have now received  
Silver-level recognition.

Apple Juice Concentrate

We source apple juice concentrate from a variety of 

suppliers in Europe, Latin America and Asia. In 2021, 

KDP began conducting audits to assess the human 

rights and environmental protections in place at these 

manufacturing facilities. The results showed that 

among our total apple juice concentrate suppliers, 

25% of facilities were in high-risk countries and 98% 

of the volume produced in those high-risk countries 

was processed in facilities that either met or exceeded 

our audit performance requirements. Our supply chain 

can change year over year, and KDP strives to audit all 

facilities in high-risk countries as they onboard and drive 

performance improvements when necessary. In parallel, 

we are working to develop our approach for addressing 

the farm-level risks in this supply chain.  

Spotlight: 

ACCOUNTABILITY AT OUR TIER 1 SUPPLIER SITES

The long-term objective of our responsible sourcing program at factories is for our suppliers to 

implement and manage a robust compliance program in their owned operations and extended supply 

chain. In 2021, 40% of our brewer contract manufacturers took an important step in this direction by 

signing up for RBA’s Factory Lead Certification. Factory Leads are individuals that work on the factory 

floor, are trained on RBA’s standards and help ensure social and environmental standards are being 

implemented and followed on a day-to-day basis.

24

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain
Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix

Nature

2030  G OA L

P R O G R E SS 
T H O U G H O U T  202 1

Support regenerative agriculture and conservation 

on 250K acres of land

Projects initiated in 2021 will 

deliver regenerative agriculture 

and conservation benefits 

beginning in 2022.

partnership with experts, including significant stakeholder 

KEY DEFINITIONS

outreach to growers, NGOs and industry organizations.  
Our methodology is available on our website. Given the  
vastly different sourcing geographies and local contexts  

of our three priority crops, progress within each supply chain 

will look different over time. 

Looking ahead, KDP will continue to partner with experts 

such as the Sustainable Agriculture Initiative Platform 

and the Sustainable Food Lab to ensure that we progress 

toward outcome-focused measurement approaches 

that are aligned across industries. We anticipate 

positive climate and water impacts associated with 

our regenerative agriculture and conservation projects 

that will, in turn, contribute to KDP’s climate and water 

commitments and aspirations.

Regenerative Agriculture: 

A holistic, localized approach to agricultural production 

and land management that seeks to mitigate climate 

change, increase soil health, support resilient landscapes 

and improve farmer livelihoods.

Conservation: 

The act of bringing non-agricultural land into conservation 

protection or supporting an increase in protections and/or 

stewardship on already conserved lands.

KDP’S REGENERATIVE AGRICULTURE & CONSERVATION PROJECTS ACROSS THREE DISTINCT SUPPLY CHAINS

Regenerative Agriculture  
& Conservation

Regenerative agriculture and conservation actions are key 

drivers for protecting, restoring and managing natural 

resources to support the resilience of supply chains. Smart 

agricultural practices contribute to soil health, water 

quality and quantity improvements, biodiversity and farmer 

resilience, while also reducing carbon impacts. In 2021, we 

committed to a new goal of supporting conservation and 

regenerative agriculture on 250,000 acres of land by 2030, 

which represents approximately 50% of the land used to 

grow KDP’s top climate-sensitive crops. 

KDP expects to meet this commitment through investments 

directly related to coffee, corn and apple farming and 

through investing in conservation within the regions 

where these crops are grown. Over the course of 2021, 
we developed a methodology for measuring progress in 

Apples

Corn

Coffee

Support pollinator populations, 
soil health and land conservation 
in the Mott’s producer community 
in western New York in 
partnership with key NGO and 
technical assistance stakeholders.

Support cover cropping, fertilizer 
pollution reduction and soil 
health in the midwestern U.S. 
Corn Belt in partnership with 
KDP suppliers, growers and 
industry organizations.

Support rainforest conservation, 
agroforestry production, climate 
resilience and biodiversity across Latin 
America, Africa and Asia in partnership 
with KDP suppliers, key NGO partners 
and industry stakeholders. 

25

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain
Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix

Livelihoods

Economic Viability for Farmers  
and Workers 

In 2021, we set an ambition to advance inclusion  

by addressing barriers to entry in our supply chain  

because we believe all workers need to make a decent 

wage, farmers need to be profitable and prosperity  

should be within reach for those in the marketplace.  

When growers have access to economic opportunities, 

they are better positioned to contribute positively 

to sustainability challenges, such as preservation of 

biodiversity, climate change, water stewardship and 

personal and community well-being. 

KDP’s commitment to inclusion extends from our direct 

suppliers to the farms, related operations and local 

businesses further upstream that make our supply chain 

possible. Decades of working with global coffee suppliers 

have shown us that market access and overall economic 

viability are essential for truly sustainable sourcing. Having 

achieved our 2020 goal of engaging more than one million 
people in our coffee supply chain to improve their lives25,  
we are now focused on supporting these issues with the 

farmers and workers in our broader supply chains. 

We aspire to advance inclusion by addressing barriers to entry 
and prosperity in our supply chain.

Spotlight: 

BUSINESS FOR INCLUSIVE GROWTH MEMBERSHIP

During 2021, KDP continued its journey to integrate social and environmental considerations into our 

Procurement practices. Our ongoing membership to Business For Inclusive Growth (B4IG) and engagement 

with their Inclusive Sourcing workstream has been an inspiration and a driver for KDP to further 
institutionalize a focus on supporting vulnerable populations across the value chain. During 2021, we 

applied those learnings to develop an Inclusive Sourcing toolkit, including a Supplier Diversity program.  
See People & Communities for more information on our Supplier Diversity program.

“ RGC Coffee has worked hand in hand with KDP for over a decade to improve the quality of life of coffee families, 

including both farmers and farmworkers. With a very unique and impactful approach, we have designed our projects 

on the ground in collaboration with those who are the beneficiaries. This has strengthened the commitment of the 

community and empowered them as owners of the results. We feel very proud to be part of KDP’s sustainability 

journey and our communities remain at the forefront of our efforts.”

– Angela Pelaez, Director of Sustainability, RGC Coffee

26

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain
Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix

NATURE & LIVELIHOODS INVESTMENT HIGHLIGHTS

Understanding the Barriers to Improved Income in  
the Coffee Sector 

KDP has partnered with the Sustainable Food Lab to learn about the 
challenges to improving farmer income. We are particularly interested in 
understanding “living income,” which is the annual income required for a 
household to afford a decent standard of living. By combining analysis with 
tests of different sourcing and financing programs, KDP aims to identify 
the best mechanisms for increasing profitability with coffee growers. 

Projects include:

• A three-year pilot project, launched in 2020, to examine how variables in KDP’s control, 

such as preferred pricing, volume commitments and investments, can impact the income  
of four groups of smallholder coffee farmers in Colombia, Honduras and Uganda.  
Further, in 2021, we solicited proposals from those farmers for targeted impact investments 
they felt would most benefit their net household income. All four groups requested support 
to replace the old trees on their farms with new climate-adapted seedlings. 

• A study to determine what a living income would be for smallholder coffee farmers in Peru.

Strengthening Climate Resilience and Protecting 
Watersheds in Colombia

In 2021, KDP completed a three-year initiative to support smallholder 
coffee farmers to implement water and climate-smart practices on their 
farms. In partnership with RGC Coffee and Solidaridad in Colombia, the 
initiative focused on reforestation, water management, soil management 
and community building. A key enabler of the effort’s success was its 
emphasis on community engagement and ownership. Farmers were 
integrally involved in the project from the beginning.

By the end of 2021:

• 2,464 farmers reported adopting good agricultural practices taught through the project.

• 28.3 hectares of land were reforested through the planting of 30,735 trees.

• 525 hectares of land were brought under good soil management approaches.

• 131 farms were equipped to properly treat wastewater generated through milling.

• 1,600+ people received access to safe drinking water through installation of home filters.

Building Economic Prosperity and  
Environmental Stewardship with Apple Farmers 

Over the past two years, KDP has engaged the growers who supply 
apples for our Mott’s Applesauce to better understand the economic 
factors of growing apples for processing in the region, as well as 
the environmental landscape to uncover opportunities to support 
regenerative agriculture practices. 

In 2021, our work included:

• Building an open-source cost model to accurately reflect on-farm costs for processing 
apples, which will allow users to model variables such as regulatory changes to labor  
costs and changing crop protection sprays. 

• Engaging growers to determine which regenerative agricultural practices they already use, 

and those they are interested in using, to support improved outcomes. 

Supporting Nebraska Corn Farmers to Boost 
Resiliency Via Cover Cropping

In the first year of a three-year partnership in Nebraska, we supported 
a cost-sharing framework for farmers to plant cover crops between 
rotations of corn and soy plantings. The project—a collaboration 
between KDP, ADM, PepsiCo and Practical Farmers of Iowa — 
contributes funds to educate growers and subsidize cover crop seed.  
As a result of cover cropping and farmer technical assistance, these 
acres will see reduced GHG emissions and water pollution. 

In 2021:

• 7,250 acres of cover crops planted by 38 farmers were subsidized by KDP and PepsiCo. 

• 8,608 additional acres of cover crops were planted by those farmers leveraging the 

education provided by the project.

• 15,858 total acres in cover crops resulted from the first year of the program. 

27

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Health &  
Well-being

We aim to be a trusted partner on the  

health and well-being journey of our consumers.  

More than ever, people are prioritizing their health and well-being and want 

to know what is in the products they consume. Simultaneously, health issues 

remain a growing concern in communities across North America. Given this 

context, our health and well-being strategy focuses on accelerating innovation 

to provide more better-for-you beverage options, increasing transparency 

about what is in our products and expanding distribution of well-being 

I N  T H I S   S E C T I O N

A Balanced Product Portfolio

Access to Better-For-You Products 

offerings in new and varied markets. Working alongside credentialed health 

Transparency & Consumer Information

and well-being experts, we are committed to empowering consumers to make 

informed choices that support their holistic health and well-being journeys.

Product Safety & Quality 

28

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being
Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix

A Balanced 
Product Portfolio

2025   G OA L

P R O G R E SS 
T H O U G H O U T  202 1

Provide positive  

hydration in 60% of  

KDP products

56%

ACHIEVED

Positive Hydration 

We know consumers are looking for more than just great 

functional benefits from their food and drinks27. That 
is why KDP’s Research and Development teams are 

taste from their beverages. In 2021, we set out to be 

focused on product innovations that prioritize reduced 

a trusted partner on their well-being journeys, and we 

sugar and calories and consider the benefits of functional 

have expanded the way we think about health, focusing 

ingredients to support positive hydration. Despite supply 

not only on the reduction of calories or sugar, but also 

chain constraints in 2021, we expanded our range of 

offering nutritional and/or functional attributes. KDP has 

positive hydration choices, including Dr Pepper Zero 

committed that, by 2025, 60% of our product portfolio 
in the U.S. will provide positive hydration26, a goal we 
established last year and against which significant progress 

Sugar and Bai Boost, as well as new hot coffee seasonal 

flavors and Brew Over Ice flavors. At the close of 2021, 

43% of our cold products and 93% of our hot products 

was made. Specifically, in 2021, 56% of our products 

met the definition of positive hydration.  

provided positive hydration, an increase from 54% in 2020. 

The increase was primarily due to our expanded nationwide 

To support our positive hydration goal, we collaborate 

distribution of Polar Beverages and the launch of new brand 

with Partnership for a Healthier America (PHA), a 

extensions like Dr Pepper Zero Sugar and Green Mountain 

nonprofit committed to transforming the food landscape 

Coffee Roasters Brew Over Ice flavors.

in pursuit of health equity in the U.S. PHA is providing 

According to research, the majority of U.S. consumers 

validation of our positive hydration progress through  

want to improve their dietary intake and are looking for 

our multi-year partnership.

KDP health and well-being guidance and annual 

Natural caffeine 
0 calories

Hydration
0 calories

Hydration
10 calories

Full serving of fruit  31 
No added sugar 

POSITIVE HYDRATION  
ACROSS OUR PORTFOLIO 

A product meets the positive hydration criteria if it:

Provides a serving of fruit or vegetables 

OR 

Is below 40 calories per serving28 with a 
functional attribute29 or at least 10%  
Daily Value of a nutrient to encourage30

Examples of our products that meet these criteria 

include non-caloric coffees and teas, 100% fruit juice 

and sauces with no added sugar, low-calorie energy and 

soft drinks, and sparkling, still and functional waters. 

Greater than 10% Daily 
Value of vitamin C
10 calories

Hydration, no sodium 
0 calories

29

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being
Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix

“

  As registered dietitians, we’re 

always looking for products that 

help consumers make smarter 

nutrition decisions, which is 

why I’m excited to have worked 

with Keurig Dr Pepper on their 

Health and Well-being strategy.”

– Kathleen Zelman, MPH, RD/LD, Member of Keurig 

Dr Pepper Health & Well-being Advisory Panel

More Choices, Less Sugar

Beyond the positive hydration products in our 

portfolio, KDP continues to expand consumer choices 

that complement a balanced lifestyle. For instance, 

in 2021, KDP reformulated products to reduce sugar 

and calories in five major brands: A&W, RC Cola, 

Sunkist Soda, Big Red and Squirt. We also introduced 

Mott’s Mighty juice drink that has 50% less sugar and 

vitamins A, C & E to help support a healthy immune 

system, as well as Mott’s Mighty Sauce with no sugar 

added and a good source of fiber to help support a 

healthy digestive system.

Because portion control is key to balance, we also offer 

smaller portion sizes, like full-calorie beverages in mini 

cans, to give people more control over their calorie 

consumption. We continue to see consumers respond 

positively to this option; since the full year of our 

launch in 2017, we quadrupled sales of our flagship  
Dr Pepper mini cans32.

DR PEPPER MINI CANS

Based on IRi dollar sales through 

December 26, 2021

$67M

$51M

$26M

$108M

$93M

4x the sales

from 2017-2021

2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

30

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being
Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix

Access to Better-For-You Products 

Industry Collaboration 

The BCI also tracks calorie reduction efforts in five 

In 2021, we continued to collaborate with the ABA, the 

U.S. communities where health disparities have led to 

Canadian Beverage Association (CBA) and the Alliance 

higher obesity rates compared to the national average 

for a Healthier Generation on the Balance Calories 

and where reducing beverage calories is expected to be 

Initiative (BCI). With a goal of reducing beverage calories 

challenging. With varying socio-economic conditions, 

consumed per person in the U.S. and Canada by 20% 

these areas have historically seen lower demand and 

by 2025, BCI is the single-largest voluntary effort by an 

availability of no- and low-calorie beverages. The 

industry to help fight obesity.

The 2020 U.S. National BCI Progress Report33 highlighted 
an important shift in consumption from full and mid-calorie 

beverages to water and other low- and no-calorie beverages. 

Average calories consumed per person has decreased by 

10%, or halfway to the goal, since the 2014 launch of BCI. 
In the 2020 Canadian report34, the Conference Board of 
Canada determined the BCI initiative is on track to reaching 

industry’s localized actions in these communities 

are providing access to more beverage choices with 

less sugar and smaller portion sizes and encouraging 

consumers to balance the sugar they consume from 

beverages. According to the 2020 Communities BCI 
Progress Report35 average calories per person fell in all 
five selected communities. 

In 2022, we are forming a Health Disparities Working Group 

its goal, citing a 16% reduction in the amount of beverage 

with our peers at the ABA to explore industry solutions that 

calories consumed by Canadians between 2014 and 2019.

can scale the issue. 

31

EXPANDED DISTRIBUTION

KDP supports consumer choice by offering a 

wide selection of products including better-for-

you beverage options. We have accelerated and 
expanded the distribution of those offerings to  

new and varied markets in order to reach a  

diverse mix of consumers. In 2021, we advanced 

that access through new outreach at both the  

local and national level. Recent efforts include:

•  We implemented a national campaign for  

Core Hydration, promoting water consumption 

in 7-Eleven stores through discount price 

promotions and in-store end cap displays. 

•  In 2020, we entered into a long-term franchise 

agreement with Polar Beverages to drive national 

distribution of Polar Seltzer, a zero-calorie 

offering with a variety of flavors and a leading 

sparkling water brand in the Northeastern U.S.  

In 2021, distribution of Polar Seltzer outside of 

the Northeast market grew by 127%.

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being
Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix

Transparency 
& Consumer 
Information

Labeling & Product Facts 

To empower consumers to make informed choices,  

we transparently provide important nutrition information 

about our beverages. Beyond adhering to local laws and 

regulations for nutrition labels, we include voluntary 

front-of-pack calorie labeling on many of our beverage 

containers. Additionally, we have product facts websites 
in the U.S. and Canada that provide nutrition information 
for cold beverages. In 2022, KDP is expanding these sites 

to include owned coffee brands, certifications such as 

USDA organic or Fair Trade and packaging attributes 

such as recycled content. 

CLEAR ON CALORIES LABEL

10CALORIES

PER BOTTLE

Responsible Marketing 

KDP has strict policies across all communications 

channels to ensure our advertising does not appear 

on or near content we deem objectionable or harmful. 

for this age group. KDP complied with this commitment 

and did not advertise to children under age 12 in 2021, 

regardless of the product’s nutrition profile.

Employees and media agencies with primary responsibility 

We are committed to promoting our positive hydration 

for adhering to these policies complete mandatory 

products and believe in harnessing the power of marketing 

training on our marketing standards. As participants 

to support consumer well-being goals and drive healthful 

in the U.S. Children’s Food and Beverage Advertising 

choices. In 2021, 49% of our overall marketing budget 

Initiative (CFBAI), we comply with their advertising 

focused on positive hydration beverages, an increase of  

standards set in CFBAI’s Core Principles and report 

17 percentage points from 2020. This was primarily driven 

annually on our pledge to either not engage in advertising 

by a robust marketing campaign in support of the launch 

primarily directed to children under 12 or to advertise 
only products that meet CFBAI’s strict nutrition criteria 

of Dr Pepper Zero Sugar, which was the number one 
carbonated soft drink innovation in 202136.

32

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being
Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix

Product Safety  
& Quality

KDP applies rigorous food safety and quality standards 

throughout every step of the product lifecycle for all 

beverages and brewers we manufacture and market. We 

have robust compliance programs and review systems 

led by a cross-functional team of Food Safety, Quality 

Assurance and Regulatory Affairs experts who ensure our 

products meet or exceed all legal requirements for product 

safety as well as our own rigorous quality standards.  

Our food safety systems utilize the Preventative 

Controls and Hazard Analysis and Critical Control 

Point (HACCP) method, an internationally recognized 

system of identifying and managing food safety-related 

risks. Every KDP manufacturing site meets or exceeds 

requirements set by the Global Food Safety Initiative 

(GFSI), an industry-recognized coalition that oversees 

food safety standards. These programs include internal 

and third-party audits to verify our food safety processes 

and controls are operating effectively. In 2021, COVID-19-

related constraints impacted our ability to conduct on-site 

audits at our manufacturing facilities. We addressed this 

through risk-based prioritization of on-site audits and 

remote audits. KDP requires 100% of our manufacturing 

facility employees to undergo annual food safety and 

quality training and, in 2021, we expanded our virtual 

learning options due to ongoing in-person meeting 

limitations related to the pandemic.  

We actively work to drive compliance to our food safety 

and quality policies and objectives including mandatory 

documented standards and third-party audits and/

or certification, among our suppliers of raw materials 

and packaging. The majority of our suppliers are 

SPOTLIGHT ON  
APPLIANCE QUALITY

GFSI-certified, and we have a program to audit key 

Keurig brewers must also meet or exceed 

suppliers every year on a risk-based rotation schedule. 
Our Chemicals Management Policy, introduced in 2021, 
governs how we assess and mitigate risks associated with 

third-party regulatory safety standards and 

compliance requirements. Our rigorous testing 

program identifies potential use cases and 

identified materials in our products and packaging, and 

failure modes to ensure appliance quality and 

we regularly monitor our suppliers and ingredients to stay 

consistency of operation over time. In addition, 

ahead of developing food safety regulations.

we maintain a robust consumer care process 

to help us address brewer performance after 

To stay informed and benchmark best practices, we consult 

purchase and use diagnostic tools built into our 

with external quality experts and peers through industry 

organizations such as the ABA, CBA, Consumer Brands 

brewers to assess potential issues. For instance, 
with the launch of technologies within our 

Association, National Coffee Association, the International 

Keurig Supreme Plus Smart brewer in 2021, we 

Society of Beverage Technologists, the Food Allergy 

are now able to view diagnostic information in 

Research and Resource Program and the Association of 

real-time to help our consumers maintain the 

Home Appliance Manufacturers.

performance of their Keurig appliance.

33

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report People &  
Communities

We are supporting our diverse workforce and 

investing in our communities to drive for positive 

impact and inclusive growth.    

The pandemic accelerated shifts in the way people work, their 

expectations of their employers and their desire to make a positive 

impact through their work. More than ever, employers must 

prioritize employee health, development and well-being—and invest 

in their communities. At KDP, we are pursuing sustainable business 

performance with a continued focus on our people, their safety, their 

I N  T H I S   S E C T I O N

Employee Development, Engagement and Well-being

Diversity & Inclusion

journey with us and the inclusive culture that defines our Company. 

Workplace Health & Safety

Community Engagement

34

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities
People & Communities

Governance

Appendix

Employee 
Development, 
Engagement  
& Well-Being

“

 KDP’s Leadership Development 

program has helped me shape 

how I think and behave as an 

effective leader, which supports 

my goals of stronger business 

performance and embracing 

the ONE KDP culture. It 

provided me with additional 

strategic leadership skills and 

gave me the opportunity to 

meet new people and network 

with my peers that I don't 

necessarily work with on a 

regular basis.”

– Adrian Sepcic, Senior Manager, Beverage 

Research and Development

Recruitment, Development  
and Learning

Our approximately 27,000 employees make our 

success possible, and we strive to deliver meaningful 

career experiences to ensure we can attract, develop 

and retain a dynamic and talented workplace.  

We leverage a variety of tools and resources to source 

qualified talent from a diverse talent pool. In 2021, 

we trained our recruiters and hiring managers on 

new strategies and techniques to ensure an inclusive 

recruitment process. In addition, we expanded 

our recruitment outreach with existing and new 

organizations including the National Black MBA 

Association, Reaching Out MBA and Out in Science, 

Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (oSTEM).

From the very beginning of their career journey at 

KDP, we want our team members to feel welcome. In 

2021, we evolved our employee onboarding experience 

to include a more intentional introduction to our KDP 

At KDP, our performance management process37 fosters 
alignment and accountability and creates a culture of 

culture. We modernized all onboarding checklists to 

development and recognition. Our annual performance 

make the transition seamless for new employees and 

management cycle ensures that employees set goals 

their managers, particularly for those joining in a remote 

aligned with our business priorities and receive ongoing, 

or hybrid environment. We also created a workspace 

real-time feedback throughout the year. In 2021, we 

for new hires in one of our online collaboration apps to 

streamlined and improved this process to make it more 

encourage virtual connections between new employees.  

meaningful to employees but a lighter lift for people 

managers. We added a mid-year performance and 

We understand that employee career development 

developmental touchpoint to make sure team members 

is critical to retaining our workforce, and we offer 

a robust library of on-demand and instructor-led 

learning experiences. In 2021, we expanded our KDP 

Fundamental Leadership Expectations training beyond 

our frontline leaders, inviting all new leaders to complete 

the training as part of their onboarding process. The 

multi-day virtual development program covers topics 

such as developing a leader’s mindset, creating a culture 

of feedback and leading teams through times of change.

are aligned on their performance against organizational 

priorities and their individual goals.

71,000+ hours of training completed 

for our non-frontline team members, 

equaling 10 average hours per employee38

35

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities
People & Communities

Governance

Appendix

Employee Engagement

Workforce Benefits and Well-being

KDP invests in fostering a dynamic, equitable and 

We offer a range of benefits and resources across 

rewarding environment where we enable conversations 

geographies that support our employees’ total  

at the team level to create a great place to work.  

well-being, including their physical, mental and financial 

We conducted our third employee engagement survey 

health. For eligible non-union employees in the U.S.,  

as KDP in 2021, inviting all team members to share 

key offerings include: 

feedback on key topics like culture, engagement, 

diversity and inclusion, well-being and work environment. 

Employee participation increased to 89%, up from 81% 

•  Physical, mental and financial well-being resources  

for our employees and their families 

in 2020. The Company’s overall engagement score also 

•  Domestic partner coverage 

increased to 70% in 2021, up from 62% in 2020.  

Shifting Meeting Culture

We announced the Company’s first Our 

Voices Matter Awards in 2021 to recognize 

and celebrate the contributions of KDP’s 

engagement teams. Our Waterbury, Vermont, 

organization won the Quick Win and Employee 

Choice Award with an initiative that shifted 

meeting culture. The team implemented a new 

standard where meetings traditionally set for 

60 minutes were reduced to 45 minutes, and 
30-minute sessions were reduced to 25 minutes. 

This ultimately empowered teams to implement 

changes that helped to improve focus, reduce 

overscheduling and drive efficiency.

•  Paid parental leave for both mothers and fathers  

for the birth or adoption of a child 

•  Free counseling sessions for employees and their  

family members 

•  Retirement savings plans with significant matching 

company contributions 

•  Employee tuition reimbursement for undergraduate, 

graduate and certificate programs 

•  Paid time off up to eight hours annually to volunteer 

in our communities 

In 2021, we introduced a new interactive support tool 

designed to help employees make more informed 

and personalized benefit decisions, which is available 

through an expanded virtual resource library that 

contains educational resources about our benefits 

package and vendors. We also enhanced our available 

tools to support the mental and emotional well-being of 

our teams, including offering our virtual therapy services 

through an even wider range of channels, such as via 

text, live chat or video conference.  

Benefits for our union team members within our 

SUPPORTING  
FLEXIBLE WORKING 

At the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, close to 

5,000 global KDP employees made an unexpected 

transition from working onsite working from home 

and created a need for us to rethink how, when  

and where work gets done most effectively. In 

planning for a broader return from home, in 2021  

we introduced a new hybrid work model for KDP,  

“We Flex. We Deliver,” designed to offer a flexible mix 

of onsite and virtual work to drive high productivity 

and engagement. Employees were encouraged to 

return to the office on a voluntary basis in November 

and December to enable and empower them to 
start building new routines, test hybrid ways of 

manufacturing and direct store delivery (DSD) teams are 

working and adjust schedules based on learnings. 

covered by separate collective bargaining agreements. 

We launched our hybrid approach with our broad 

In 2021, approximately 29% of our employees across 

the U.S., Mexico and Canada were covered by collective 
bargaining agreements.

return to the office in February 2022 and have used 

feedback from our teams to continue to shape our 

new ways of working.

36

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities
People & Communities

Governance

Appendix

Diversity  
& Inclusion

2025   G OA L S

P R O G R E SS 
T H O U G H O U T  202 1

Increase female 

representation in Director 

and above positions by  

25% to 33% of the total

28%

REPRESENTATION

Increase people of color 

representation in Director 

and above positions by 

25% to 21% of the total

17%

REPRESENTATION

Our Diversity & Inclusion Aspiration 

We understand that embracing our team’s diverse 

experiences, perspectives and background is key to 

inspiring innovation, fostering and retaining talent, driving 

change and better connecting with our customers and 

consumers. Our diversity and inclusion work is led by a 

cross-functional leadership team that includes Chairman 

& CEO Bob Gamgort and Chief Human Resources Officer 

Mary Beth DeNooyer. 

Diversity 

DIVERSITY

INCLUSION

DRIVING CHANGE

for underrepresented groups and continuing to evolve our 

internal processes and talent approach.

Inclusion 

Our leaders are accountable to create a culture of trust 

and respect in which all employees belong, all voices 

are heard and different perspectives are valued. All 

employees are expected to embrace and support this 

culture. In early 2021, KDP’s leadership team at the VP-

level and above participated in skill- building sessions 

on the benefits of a diverse workforce and actions they 

can take to support inclusion. Later in the year, more 

than 6,000 leaders and team members completed a 

training program designed to help people understand 

actions are designed to ensure a level playing field for 

the importance of diversity and inclusion, the impact 

everyone to thrive. Last year, we announced initial workforce 

of exclusion and how to foster an inclusive culture and 

representation goals to increase the number of women and 

psychological safety within teams. New KDP employees 

people of color in leadership roles by 25% by 2025. We chose 

are now expected to complete this program.

to focus on the Director and above leaders because we 

know that leadership representation has a disproportionate 

Driving Change

impact on driving positive change throughout the 

organization. Achieving this ambition would result in females 

representing 33% of Director and above positions globally 

and people of color representing 21% of Director and above 

positions in the U.S. over the five-year period. 

In 2021, we made significant progress towards our female 

representation goal, increasing female representation at 

the Director and above level to 28% from a 26% baseline. 

Our people of color representation at the Director and 

above level held steady at our 17% baseline throughout the 

year. Despite progress made in hiring and promoting diverse 

team members, we experienced an equal level of attrition. 

We have identified three key drivers to encourage evolving 

our representation across our workforce: recruitment, 

retention and development of talent. Actions are 

underway to support progress against those drivers, 

We are working to ensure that every employee knows 

the part they play in this journey, and we are committed 

to transparently communicate updates on our progress. 

In 2021, our ERGs offered more than 100 events that 

celebrated diversity and culture. Further, we began 

a cadence of quarterly updates to our executive and 

functional leadership teams about our progress against our 

overall diversity and inclusion aspiration and goals, as well 

as specific functional action plans.

We are committed to providing a 

respectful workplace that is free from 

discrimination or harassment, as 

outlined in our Respectful Workplace 

and Anti-Harassment Policy.

37

We believe that our workforce should reflect our consumer 

including identifying and building even more sources for 

base and the communities we serve. Our processes and 

diverse talent, providing more development opportunities 

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities
People & Communities

Governance

Appendix

71%

areas of improvement.

DIRECTOR+

28%

Supplier Diversity 

GLOBAL 
TOTAL

WORKFORCE DATA & TRANSPARENCY

We continue to enhance our disclosure about our workforce demographics. In this report, our Appendix includes a 
deeper level of detail specific to our U.S. employee population across gender and race/ethnicity compared to what 
we reported last year. We have also made available our EEO-1 Report, which can be accessed from our website.

Global Gender 
Demographics

Men

Women

Not Disclosed

U.S. Racial/Ethnicity 
Demographics

Asian

Black

Hispanic

Native American

Native Hawaiian or 
Other Pacific Islander

White

Two or More Races

Not Disclosed

81%

18%

1%

21%

19%

3%
3%
1%
< 1%

1%

6%

5%

4%

4%

2%

<1%

<1%

52%

79%

DIRECTOR+

U.S. 
TOTAL

<1%

Pay Equity 

We maintain robust internal processes to review our 

pay practices in each of our local markets to ensure 

our compensation programs and practices are fair 

and equitable among all employees. Since the merger 

that created KDP in 2018, we have been focused on 

harmonizing salaries, bonus targets, job titles and  

benefits across our enterprise. The harmonization  

work was completed in 2021. In 2022, we will conduct 

a third-party pay equity audit in the U.S. for salaried 

employees to understand our current pay equity  

metrics related to gender and race/ethnicity among  

equal or similar roles and identify any unanticipated  

We are fostering inclusive growth by engaging suppliers 

for needs across our entire enterprise. This includes 

working with suppliers identified as owned by minorities, 

women, veterans, disabled and members of the LGBTQ+ 

community. Since our merger in July 2018, we have spent 

more than $870 million with diverse, Tier 1 suppliers. 

In 2021, KDP developed and launched a new Supplier 

Diversity program, which will continue to be expanded 

over time. This new Procurement program, coupled with a 

revised Procurement Policy on Supplier Diversity, will allow 

for more diverse suppliers to participate in the growth 

and success of our business than ever before. As we look 

for additional opportunities to drive diversity, we will 

continue to leverage our membership in the B4IG coalition 

and its Inclusive Sourcing workstream, which aims to spur 

the development of more impactful inclusive sourcing 

programs in company supply chains.

Please see Data Summary for additional employee diversity data.

38

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities
People & Communities

Governance

Appendix

EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUPS

More than 4,300 KDP employees are members of one 

or more of our eight company-sponsored Employee 

Resource Groups (ERGs) that help our people build 

connection and community. In 2021, these groups 

hosted over 100 events in activities focused on the 

“4Cs” – culture, career, community and company.

Culture

Each ERG organizes a month of cultural awareness programming for their coworkers every year. 

Our ERGs' 2021 outreach across KDP included panels and events addressing Black History Month, 

Women’s History Month, Asian and Pacific Islanders Heritage Month, Hispanic Heritage Month,  

Pride Month, Family Month, Service Appreciation Month and Mental Health & Wellness Month.

Career

KDP ERGs provide development opportunities for their members through career advancement and 

mentoring programs. Throughout October, we hosted Internal Career Fairs for functions including 

Direct Store Delivery, Supply Chain, Marketing and Corporate to help internal candidates learn more 

about making a new career move within the Company.

Community

Our impact in communities is amplified by ERG volunteerism, sponsorship and fundraising.  

ERG members and allies raised more than $90,000 in 2021 for nonprofits focused on health and  

well-being, environment, disaster relief and racial and social equality. When matched by KDP’s  
Engage for Good campaign, their donations totaled over $193,000.

Company

KDP ERGs began contributing to our beverage pipeline in 2021 with new ideas and innovations. 

For example, the Hispanic & Allies ERG hosted the Company’s first entrepreneurial “Shark Tank” 

competition. The event’s top three entries are now in development at KDP, including new K-Cup  

pod and beverage flavors inspired by Latino culture.

39

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities
People & Communities

Governance

Appendix

Workplace Health & Safety

Safety Management 

Our employees’ safety and well-being are top priorities 

and considered a shared responsibility across KDP. Our 

Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) programs are 

focused on implementing practices within our facilities 

to consistently improve employee safety and reduce 

workplace risk.  

problems and taking corrective action as issues arise, 

helping to foster an environment where our employees  

are active in safety prevention and operational efficiency. 

Safety metrics and trends are monitored throughout 

the enterprise utilizing our Global Safety Tracking 

System. We leverage internal and third-party experts to 

assess our compliance with safety procedures, laws and 

Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) 

We use globally recognized Total Productive Maintenance 

standards. Importantly, we recognize that employee 

(TPM) principles as the framework behind our EHS 

Management System. TPM principles are designed to 

improve manufacturing productivity by encouraging 

employees to share the responsibility of watching 

for developing hazards and preventing issues such as 

unplanned downtime, personnel errors and employee 

accidents. The implementation of TPM in our facilities 

training is critical to our ability to eliminate accidents, 

work-related illnesses and other safety incidents at 

our facilities. Safety training begins with our new hire 

orientation and continues throughout the tenure of our 

employees, with activities including ongoing leadership 

training, daily safety huddles, site-specific education and 

specialized training such as ergonomics and repetitive 

empowers our employees to be accountable for solving 

motion injury prevention.

OUR APPROACH TO COVID-19

As KDP remained an essential business throughout the COVID-19 pandemic in 2021, the health, safety 

and well-being of our employees and their families remained our highest priority. More than 21,000 

of our employees continued to run our plants and distribute our beverages and other products to our 

customers and consumers. We relied on our 6-Point Employee Health and Safety Program to ensure 
employee safety and operational continuity. This program included employee health screenings, 

enhanced cleaning and sanitation, team segmentation, face mask policies, social distancing and our 

confirmed COVID-19 case management task force assessments and actions. We also began to put 

new procedures and tools in place at our office locations, anticipating the return of our approximately  

5,000 remote workers more broadly in 2022. We continue to evaluate and evolve these protocols as 

appropriate in accordance with CDC guidance and local mandates.

40

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities
People & Communities

Governance

Appendix

differentiate employee walkways from powered 

WORKPLACE SAFETY METRICS

Safety Progress 

We stay at the forefront of ensuring workplace safety 

through continuous improvement programs and investing in 

tools and technologies to improve how we report, manage 

and solve health and safety issues. Initiatives implemented 

within our DSD and supply chain operations in 2021 include:

industrial truck travel-ways.

•  Installing active purification systems for air  
and surface disinfection across more than  

30 of our supply chain and corporate facilities, 

creating a healthier indoor environment for our  

on-site employees.

•  Enhancing our U.S. fleet of powered industrial trucks, 
including forklifts and motorized hand trucks, to align 

•  Introducing a workplace violence prevention policy 

and launching an active assailant awareness training 

with required equipment standardization and improved 

program to keep our employees informed on how to 

safety features.

stay safe during an emergency.

Manfacturing

Lost Time Injury Rate 

Total Fatalities (work-related)

•  Launching an in-cab video monitoring pilot program in 
our U.S. commercial vehicle feet, designed to improve 

•  Reviewing hiring practices to ensure we are recruiting 
candidates who will advance our focus on building a 

Total Recordable Injury Rate

our operator safety on the road through increased driver 

workforce committed to our safety principles.

accountability and incident visibility as well as improved 

safety technology such as speed limit and forward-

collision warnings. 

•  Implementing a certified driver training program that 
empowered our lead commercial drivers to better 

identify, coach and train new drivers while creating a 

new career development path for entry-level employees 

within our sales and warehouse operations.

We evaluate our safety performance across a variety 

Direct Store Delivery

of indicators and track safety metrics across the 

enterprise. In 2021, our lost-time injury and total injury 

frequency rates within our supply chain were well 

Lost Time Injury Rate 

below benchmark rates for beverage manufacturing, 

amid ongoing volume surges for our products related 

to COVID-19. Within our DSD operations, we have 

achieved a nearly 50% reduction in our total injury 

Total Recordable Injury Rate 

•  Adding more physical barriers and gates throughout all 

rate since 2018, allowing us to move into the industry 

of our manufacturing and distribution facilities to clearly 

average for beverage distribution. 

For more detail, see Data Summary.

2020

2021

0.19

0.18

0

0

0.81

0.89

2020

2021

1.9

1.3

6.7

5.2

41

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities
People & Communities

Governance

Appendix

Community 
Engagement

Employee Giving &  
Volunteer Programs 

KDP’s commitment to creating meaningful social impact 

in the areas in which we live and work allows us to 

enrich communities and engage employees. In 2021, our 
annual Engage for Good campaign raised donations for 
more than 750 nonprofit organizations across the U.S., 

Canada, Mexico and, for the first time, Switzerland, 

where our coffee buying team is based. KDP matched 

each employee donation up to $250, supporting those 

causes most important to the individual. Almost half of 

our 2021 employee donations aligned with key KDP focus 

areas of health and well-being, environment, diversity 

and inclusion and disaster relief, qualifying for a double 

match by the Company.  

In 2022, we are enhancing Engage for Good to involve 
global employees across all KDP locations and will now 

accept donations throughout the entire year versus just 

the campaign period. Additionally, we will collaborate 

with our ERGs to support activations with specific 

organizations tied to their mission. 

Our employee volunteerism program, formerly called Dollars 
for Doers, will also now be included in our Engage for Good 
program. This employee benefit encourages employees to 

support their communities by volunteering for nonprofits of 

their choice, allowing them to earn financial grants for that 

organization. In 2021, we supported 55 nonprofits through 

grants in the U.S. and Canada by employees earning $100 

for every 10 hours volunteered, up to 30 hours per year. In 

2022, we are updating the program to make it easier for 

employees to participate, as they can now receive $10 for 

every one hour of volunteer work, up to 30 hours. Grants 

will continue to be doubled for those employees who hold a 

nonprofit board position. 

Disaster Relief 

Our beverages, especially water, provide hydration and 

comfort to communities in need amid crises and natural 

disasters. In 2021, we donated more than 426,000 

beverages in the wake of six natural disasters resulting 

from snowstorms, wildfires, floods and hurricanes. 

Additionally, we provided more than $200,000 in grants 

to KDP employees through our Employee Relief Fund. This 

fund, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit, provides financial assistance to 

KDP employees and their family members who experience a 

disaster or emergency hardship.

Program Evolution

At the end of 2021, we completed a strategic review of our 

community work and the findings have informed our future 

strategy and programming. One opportunity identified 

is to amplify our commitment to Health & Well-being by 

partnering to improve access to better-for-you products 

in diverse communities. In 2022, we will also explore new 

ways to support disaster relief efforts and relaunch our 

employee giving and volunteerism program with the aim of 

re-engaging employees in a world significantly altered by a 

global pandemic and social inclusivity movements.

Winter Storm Uri’s below-freezing 

temperatures, snow and ice left 

millions in the U.S. without power or 

water. In response to the emergency, 

KDP facilitated donations of more than 

8,000 cases of water to Operation 

Blessing, Houston Food Bank and 

City of Dallas for relief efforts across 

the state of Texas. We also provided 

support to impacted KDP employees 

through the KDP Employee Relief Fund.

42

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities
People & Communities

Governance

Appendix

COVID-19 Community Response 

The COVID-19 pandemic resulted in unique challenges and needs within our local communities. KDP has continued 

to provide meaningful support to those fighting on the frontlines. Initiatives included:

COVID-19 Vaccination Clinic
KDP Canada, along with four local partners, joined forces to open a COVID-19 vaccination 

clinic in the Saint-Michel neighborhood of Montréal. Located in the same neighborhood 

as our Canadian headquarters, the new vaccination center added resources and capacity 

to accelerate the pace of vaccinated individuals in an area that had one of the lowest 

participation rates. The partner companies set up and operated the vaccination clinic for 

three months, including managing the site, staff and logistical equipment. KDP Canada 

employees also had the opportunity to volunteer every Friday during this period. Over a 

three-month period, the clinic administered approximately 15,000 vaccine doses to patients.

Beverage Donations
KDP Mexico stepped up in 2021 to support the Red Cross of Tehuacán, Puebla and the 

local Ministry of Health by donating thousands of beverages. These beverages provided 

hydration to the healthcare personnel who provided care during the pandemic, as well as 

to the staff and participants of a COVID-19 vaccination drive focused on older adults.

Fueling the Frontline
At the height of the pandemic in 2020, KDP donated coffee and beverages, along with 

Activations for 
Underserved Communities

Adopt a School
In 2021, KDP’s African American & Allies 

partnered with the Hispanic & Allies and 

Women & Allies ERGs to provide much needed 

supplies to 10 local schools in the communities 

in which we work. Donations provided personal 

protective equipment such as individual 

sanitizers and cleansing wipes for students’ 

desks, as well as fulfilling virtual wish lists 

for basic school supply needs. The teams 

surpassed the overall goal of $500 in supplies 

for each school by 116% and have plans to 

expand the program further in 2022.

Let’s Play
At the close of 2020, KDP far exceeded our goal 

to provide play opportunities for more than 

13.5 million kids and families in underserved 

communities. The pandemic has continued 

to force delays to complete the remaining 

playspace builds with our Let’s Play partner, 

Keurig brewers and K-Cup pods, to hundreds of hospitals across the U.S. and Canada. In 

KABOOM!. As we anticipate the completion 

response to the Omicron variant outbreak, KDP reactivated the program in early 2022 to 

of those builds in the coming year, we have 

fuel hospital workers in four of the hardest hit communities. Since the program’s inception 

supported KABOOM!’s new efforts to advance 

through early 2022, more than 3,800 breakrooms in 500 hospitals across 44 states and 

equitable health and wellness outcomes for 

provinces have been outfitted with coffee stations, resulting in over four million cups of 

children, including a new initiative designed to 

coffee and other beverages donated.

end playspace inequity in 25 priority locations.

43

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities
People & Communities

Governance

Appendix

BRAND-LED COMMUNITY HIGHLIGHTS

KDP has a portfolio of more than 125 owned, licensed and partner brands. Here are just a few examples of our brands giving back:

Dr Pepper Tuition Giveaway

Since 2008, the Dr Pepper Tuition Giveaway Program has awarded more than $12.5 million in tuition assistance to deserving 

students. This year, Dr Pepper was able to bring its annual football throwing competition back to the field during halftime at 

five marquee NCAA conference championship games, after a remote competition the year prior. The brand also introduced 

new program elements, including tuition submissions via TikTok and game day throw tips by star NCAA quarterbacks.  

Tuition efforts were further extended through Dr Pepper’s partnerships with the College Football Playoff Foundation  

and 23XI Racing, where tuition was awarded to students who want to pursue a career in the motorsports industry. 

Core Hydration Find Your Balance

As part of Core Hydration’s “Find Your Balance” active-lifestyle campaign, the brand partnered with top female U.S. 

park and street skaters and EXPOSURE SKATE, a nonprofit dedicated to empowering women through skateboarding, 

to champion a more inclusive community for women athletes in sport. One aspect of the campaign included the 

#CoreForeMore call-to-action on Facebook and Instagram. For every like or share, Core Hydration donated one dollar,  

up to $15,000, to EXPOSURE SKATE. 

McCafé and Ronald McDonald House Charities® Canada Blending Coffee with Giving

Last holiday season, KDP’s licensed partner brand, McCafé®, committed to helping Ronald McDonald House Charities® 

(RMHC) Canada. Throughout December 2021, one Canadian dollar from every purchase of a McCafé At-Home coffee 

product sold in participating Canadian retailers and online was donated to support RMHC’s mission to keep families 

close to each other during the care of their sick child. This resulted in CA$100,000 being donated, or the equivalent to 

595 overnight stays at a Ronald McDonald House® for families in need across Canada. 

KDP Mexico Breast Cancer Awareness

During Breast Cancer Awareness Month, KDP Mexico brands, Peñafiel Adas, Peñafiel Mineral Water, Schweppes Agua 

Mineral and Orange Crush, participated in the Breast Cancer Pink Campaign of Grupo La Comer. Together with the  

COI Foundation, the brands created a special packaging promotion that included a pink wrap to help create awareness  

and support for this cause. Proceeds from the campaign provided breast cancer patients improved access to treatment  

and timely detection and also provided 18 patients with prostheses post-surgery. 

44

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Governance

We have strong governance structures in 

place to ensure we foster a culture built on 

integrity, transparency and responsibility.

In a world economy challenged by global events, such as the COVID-19 

pandemic, unprecedented supply chain challenges, escalating inflation 

and growing concerns regarding climate change, the scope of board 

oversight responsibility is widening. Investors, policymakers and 

other key stakeholders view strong corporate governance as a way to 

safeguard businesses from future risk, while promoting long-term value 

creation. Effective and conscientious governance underpins our ability 

to plan, operate and grow responsibly and resiliently. Our governance 

practices and transparent oversight help us to build trust inside and 

outside the Company and to consistently act with integrity.

I N  T H I S   S E C T I O N

Board Management & Oversight

Ethical Business Practices

ESG Materiality & Stakeholder Engagement

45

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance
Governance

Appendix

Board 
Management 
& Oversight

Corporate Responsibility  
& ESG Governance 

Our governance and management systems are guided 

by our values, ethics and integrity. The KDP Board of 

Directors directly oversees KDP’s ESG strategy and goals, 
as outlined in our Corporate Governance Principles. In 
this role, the Board approves long-term commitments 

and monitors progress in topics including climate, water, 

ESG OVERSIGHT

Board Of Directors
Provides primary board-level oversight of strategy, goals and policies.

Remuneration and Nomination Committee
Assists the Board with oversight of human capital management strategy and corporate governance.

Executive Leadership Team
Ensures alignment of our corporate responsibility platform and programs with our long-term business objectives 

and provides advisory support on programs and monitors progress.

Sustainability Governance Committee
Provides cross-functional decision-making and alignment with business strategy and oversees progress 

circular economy, health and well-being, sustainable 

against commitments.

practices within our supply chain, human rights and 

diversity and inclusion. While the full Board is responsible 

for oversight of KDP’s overall ESG strategy, committees 

of the Board, along with KDP’s Executive Leadership 

Team, Sustainability Governance Committee, Chief 

Sustainability Officer and cross-functional KDP teams 

that includes leaders from all areas of the business  

provide specific management, advisory, accountability 

and collaboration capabilities in support of ESG efforts.

 The Women’s Forum of New York 

named KDP a “2021 Corporate 

Champion,” a distinction recognizing 

companies that exceed the national 

average of board seats held by women.

Chief Sustainability Officer In Collaboration With Cross-Functional Teams
Establishes robust ESG agenda and strategic priorities throughout the organization, identifying and addressing 

challenges, enhancing disclosure and monitoring emerging trends.

BOARD COMPOSITION

The diverse personal and professional backgrounds and 

experiences of our Board enhance its effectiveness and 

ability to provide broad perspectives and constructive 

feedback to management. When selecting and recruiting 

director candidates, the Board seeks experienced, qualified 

members with a diversity of backgrounds, including 

attributes such as professional experience, cultural 

background, race, ethnicity and gender.

More information on our Board is available on our  
website and in our 2022 Proxy Statement. 

64% 
are “independent” under Nasdaq listing rules

7 OUT OF 11

36% 
are women 

4 OUT OF 11

9% 
are racially or ethnically diverse 

1 OUT OF 11

Board composition as of this report publication.

46

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance
Governance

Appendix

Ethical Business 
Practices

Corporate Policies & Compliance

We have implemented a suite of policies and programs 

that outline the expectations we have of our Company, 

employees and suppliers to act in a professional, ethical 
and legal manner. Our Code of Conduct is an extension of 
our values and is the foundation that guides us in making 

policies and practices. In 2022, we are implementing an 

the Federal Election Commission (FEC). The KDP PAC is 

enhanced annual compliance training programs in focus 

funded solely through voluntary contributions from eligible 

areas relevant to specific employee populations. Beyond 

employees and we have not held a fundraising campaign 

training, we are committed to supporting employees in 

since 2018. All PAC contributions are bipartisan and given 

reporting potential violations of our company policies or 

to federal and state candidates, where permissible by law, 

the law. Our 24/7 “Speaking Up” hotline and web portal 

without regard to political party affiliation. Corporate 

are managed by an independent third-party to enable 

funds are not contributed to the PAC and its receipts and 

employees, customers and vendors to anonymously 

report any concerns about misconduct, wrongdoing or 

disbursements are reported and available, as required, at 
the FEC’s website. 

violation of KDP policies.

Advocacy & Public Policy

Data Privacy & Cybersecurity

KDP is committed to protecting the privacy of our 

the right decisions about how we work and what we do.  

KDP participates in the public-policy making process within 

consumers, customers, employees and business partners. 

We recognize our responsibility to protect human rights 

and are committed to exemplifying good labor practices 

throughout business activities. In support of our Code of 

Conduct, we implement a range of corporate policies and 

business practices designed to promote ethical behavior 

and compliance, covering topics prohibiting corruption, 

forced and child labor and harassment, while recognizing 

freedom of association and collective bargaining, 

respectful workplaces and workplace safety. To-date, our 

commitment to human rights has been embedded across 

this range of policies and programs, including within our 
Supplier Code of Conduct, Modern Slavery Statement 
and, as a member of B4IG, the Business Pledge Against 
Inequalities. Our approach within our supply chain aligns 
with internationally recognized standards including the 

the U.S. at both the state and federal levels of government. 

We take precautions to safeguard all personal information 

We focus a significant portion of our advocacy efforts on 

and ensure a secure environment in accordance with 

public policies that align with and accelerate progress of 
our Drink Well. Do Good. platform, since we recognize that 
individual company action often needs to be supported by 

applicable data protection laws. Those precautions 

include devoting focused resources to network security, 

backup and disaster recovery, upgrading systems and 

enabling public-policy interventions. These policies include, 

networks and other security measures to protect our 

but are not limited to, restoring resources for a more 

systems and data. Throughout 2021, we conducted regular 

circular economy, supporting sustainable global agricultural 

cybersecurity training programs for our employees, 

supply chains, reinforcing responsible marketing and 

including simulating phishing exercises and publishing 

labeling and ensuring product quality and food safety.

ongoing data security educational tools. Our Privacy Policy 

Our public-policy activities include direct engagement 

with public officials as well as participation in trade 

associations, coalitions and stakeholder convenings. 

While our positions may not always align with those 

entities, we strive to maintain a strong and credible voice 

governs the collection and use of consumer data and can 
be found on our website. 

UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, 

in shaping the views and policy agendas of these groups. 

the UN Global Compact Principles and the International 

Information pertaining to our direct engagement and 

Labour Organisation (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental 

associated expenditures are reported to the U.S. Congress 

Rights and Principles at Work. We are creating an 

in accordance with the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995. 

enterprise-level human rights policy to strengthen and 

We adhere to all local, state and federal lobbying laws 

clarify our principles around this topic through our own 

business operations and across our value chain.

requiring registration and reporting, and a link to this 
information is provided on our website.

Every KDP employee is required to complete regular 

trainings to ensure they know and understand our 

In the U.S., the Company administers the Keurig Dr 
Pepper PAC, a political action committee registered with 

47

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance
Governance

Appendix

ESG Materiality & Stakeholder Engagement

High

S
R
E
D
L
O
H
E
K
A
T
S
O
T
E
C
N
A
T
R
O
P
M

I

ESG Materiality

Understanding our priority ESG issues informs the 

development of our corporate strategy, the investment 

of our resources and the reporting of our business and 

corporate responsibility efforts. In 2021, we conducted our 

first formal ESG materiality assessment as KDP to ensure 

that we are focused on the issues in which we can have the 

greatest impact across our value chain.  

The ESG materiality analysis included an evaluation of 

emerging trends and internal and external stakeholder input. 

The outcome of this process was our materiality matrix, 

which outlines a total of 30 non-financial issues ranked 

in relation to most important to stakeholders and most 

impactful to the business. Top ranking issues are aligned 
with our Drink Well. Do Good. agenda and will continue to 
play a prominent role in our strategy and related programs 

and policies. Moving forward, we plan to conduct an ESG 

materiality analysis on a regular basis to ensure we take 

into consideration the evolving ESG landscape, in addition 

to continuously engaging stakeholders through various 

channels. We describe information about our approach to 

and progress on these issues throughout this report and in 
the Reporting Framework Indices in this report. 

The definition of materiality with respect to ESG issues in 

this report is different than the definition of materiality 

in the context of our filings with the U.S. Securities and 

Exchange Commission (SEC). The identification of material 

issues that guide our corporate responsibility strategy 

should not be construed as a characterization regarding 

the materiality or financial impact of such issues or related 

information to investors in KDP. For a discussion of the risks 
that are material to investors in KDP, please see our Annual 
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021, 
filed with the SEC, our subsequent Quarterly Reports on 
Form 10-Q and our Current Reports on Form 8-K.

Climate Change & Greenhouse Gas (GHG Emissions)

Product Design & 
Circular Economy

Human 
Rights

Product Quality & Safety

Responsible 
Sourcing

Employee Health,  
Safety & Well-being
Corporate Governance & Ethics

Supply Chain Resiliency

Living Wage

Water Use & Stewardship

Resource Use & Conservation

Diversity, Equity & Inclusion

Energy Use/Renewable Energy
Regenerative/Sustainable Agriculture

Innovation & R&D

Consumer Health & Well-being

Employee Engagement & Development

Stakeholder Engagement

Product Labeling
Responsible Marketing

Regulation & Taxation

Deforestation

Biodiversity

Transportation Emissions

Data Privacy & Protection

Economic Downturns & Periods of Uncertainty

Community Development

Advocacy & Public Policy

Philanthropy

GMOs/Bioengineered Ingredients

Moderate

IMPACT TO THE BUSINESS

Environment

Social

Governance, Ethics & Strategy

High

48

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  
 
Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance
Governance

Appendix

HOW WE ENGAGE

NGOs

•  Corporate and 

organizational memberships

•  Direct engagement

Employees

•  Intranet

•  Employee communications  

website and app

•  Online collaboration tools: 

Workplace and KDP Wellness 
platforms

•  Weekly newsletters, executive 
communications and team 
information cascades

•  Quarterly Town Hall meetings

•  Monthly VP+ meetings

•  Employee engagement surveys

•  Employee Resource Groups

Suppliers

•  Individual and broad-based 

communications

•  Supplier trainings, 
assessments and 
remediation processes

•  Social impact investment 

through NGOs

Consumers

•  Marketing and advertising 

campaigns

•  Consumer Care hotlines

•  Brand social media channels 

and websites

•  Influencer engagement

•  Sponsorships, sweepstakes 

and giveaways

Customers

•  Individual and broad-based 

communications

•  Industry conference/tradeshows

•  Direct engagement

•  In-store promotions

Investors

•  Quarterly earnings reports, 
including conference calls  
and SEC filings

•  Financial conferences,  
investor events and  
meetings, with involvement  
from both management and 
Investor Relations

•  Financial publications and  

filings, including Annual Report 
and Proxy Statement

•  Company website

Regulators/
Policy Makers

•  Direct engagement

•  Industry trade associations

•  Policy coalitions

•  KDP U.S. Political Action 

Committee

Communities

•  Employee volunteering 
and financial giving

•  Partnerships with local 
and national NGOs

49

Stakeholder Engagement 

We engage a broad range of stakeholders, including 

suppliers, partners, customers, regulatory agencies, 

NGOs, consumers, employees, investors and others. 

We maintain ongoing dialogue and collaboration 

and leverage their expertise, insights, influence 

and energy to elevate our performance and find 

new solutions to common challenges. These 

engagements occur at the staff and executive 

leadership levels to ensure integration of new and 

innovative ideas across our organization.  

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview
Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix

About This Report

This progress report focuses on the goals, programs and initiatives that encompass our key corporate responsibility 
efforts for 2021. In addition, we have created a Data Summary, which can be found at the end of this report. Unless 
otherwise noted, this report covers data and activities for calendar year 2021 from KDP’s wholly owned operations, 

which are primarily located in the U.S., Canada and Mexico. The content covers the parts of our business in which we 

have operational control and does not include joint ventures, franchised or outsourced operations, except where noted. 

Selected data and information on our global supply chain activities are also included. 

This report was created in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core option and  

in alignment with the Sustainable Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Standards and the Task Force on  
Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Please visit the Reporting Framework Index for more information 
about these disclosures.

For 2021, we have obtained limited third-party assurance of certain key claims and sustainability performance metrics 

by ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) for energy and GHG emissions, water and diversity and 

inclusion. ERM CVS conducted an “in accordance” assessment on the SASB disclosure requirements for all related 

topics that are material to KDP. The assured data points are flagged in the Data Summary and SASB Index, located  
in the Appendix of this report. To view the ERM CVS assurance statement, please visit our website.

Forward-Looking Statements 

Certain statements contained herein are "forward-looking 

statements" within the meaning of applicable securities 

laws and regulations. These forward-looking statements 

can generally be identified by the use of words such as 

"outlook," "guidance," "anticipate," "expect," "believe," 

"could," "estimate," "feel," "forecast," "intend," "may," "plan," 

"potential," "project," "should," "target," "will," "would" and 

similar words. Forward-looking statements by their nature 

address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain. 

These statements are based on the current expectations of 

our management, are not predictions of actual performance, 

and actual results may differ materially. Forward-looking 

statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, 

including the factors disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 

10-K and subsequent filings with the SEC. We are under no 

obligation to update, modify or withdraw any forward-looking 

statements, except as required by applicable law.

50

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix
Appendix

Appendix

Data Summary

For detail on methodologies and boundaries for the goals that these data support, see our Goal Methodology Table.

Year ended December 31

2018

2019

2020

2021

All Packaging*
% Packaging Recyclable or Compostable

% Post-recycled Content across Total Packaging Portfolio

Plastic Packaging
% Plastic Packaging Recyclable or Compostable**

% Post-recycled Content across Total Plastic Portfolio

% Virgin Plastic Reduction

Total Plastic Packaging (Metric Tons)

Packaging Mix (% Of Total Weight)
% Paper/Cardboard

% PET Bottles

% Aluminum & Steel

% Non-Refillable Glass Bottles

% Polypropylene 

% Other

% Flexible Packaging and Plstic Film

% Refillable Glass Bottles

% Polystyrene 

Waste

Total Waste Generated (Short Tons) 

% Waste Diverted from Landfill

86%

20%

N/A

0.3%

N/A

87%

20%

64%

0.4%

Baseline Year

90%

22%

74%

2%

1%

92%

24%

80%

11%

6%

208,000

230,000

230,000

243,000

28%

25%

10%

24%

3%

1%

2%

2%

6%

26%

23%

11%

23%

6%

4%

2%

2%

4%

72,096

86%

72,407

88%

26%

24%

12%

22%

8%

4%

3%

1%

0.2%

114,241

92%

32%

27%

14%

10%

8%

4%

3%

2%

0%

124,859

92%

51

  *Data reported for 2019 and going forward includes most tertiary packaging and brewer packaging.
**Reported data reflects plastics that are designed for recycling systems in the geographies where KDP distributes product. The Ellen MacArthur Global Commitment definition of “recyclable” specifies that a package type 
be recycled at a 30% recycling rate across geographies of 400M or more inhabitants, which moves beyond the traditional definition of “recyclable”. In 2019, 46% of KDP plastic packaging fit this definition. In 2020, 50% 
of KDP plastic packaging fit the Global Commitment definition of “recyclable”. In 2021, 58% of KDP plastic packaging fit this definition.

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix
Appendix

Year ended December 31

2018

2019

2020

2021

Greenhouse Gas Emissions & Energy
SCOPE 1: Direct Emissions (MTCO2e)*

Stationary

Mobile

SCOPE 2: Indirect Emissions, Purchased Energy (MTCO2e)* 

Market-based

Location-based

273,576†

116,495†

157,081†

137,560†

166,484†

268,712†

116,081†

152,631†

97,345†

162,746†

289,755†

128,958†

160,797†

93,280†

165,076†

SCOPE 3: Indirect Emissions, Value Chain (MTCO2e)*

8,809,224

8,844,933

8,455,045

294,455†

131,813†

162,642†

81,091†

167,493†

9,917,331

Category breakdown:

Purchased Goods and Services

Capital Goods

Fuel-and-Energy-Related Activities (Not Included in Scope 1 or 2)

Upstream Transportation And Distribution**

Waste Generated in Operations

Business Travel

Employee Commuting

Downstream Transportation and Distribution

Processing of Sold Products

Use of Sold Products

End-of-Life Treatment of Sold Products

Downstream Leased Assets

Total Energy Use (MWh)

Total Direct Energy Usage (MWh)

Total Purchased Electricity Use (MWh)

% Grid Electricity 

% Renewable Energy***

Fleet Fuel Management 

Total Fuel Consumed (Gigajoules)

% Renewable

3,963,399

4,048,579

3,245,773 

4,762,340

35,627

97,291

481,603

797

8,324†

52,644

1,007,135

2,632,469

390,703

138,531

700

1,637,400

1,211,103

426,297

N/A

28%

N/A

34,831

93,618

476,052

6,120

9,335

53,681†

960,902

2,648,284

381,773

131,058

700

1,687,239†

1,248,290†

438,949†

N/A

47%

N/A

45,134 

97,180 

455,091 

7,365 

4,243 

50,833†

1,073,631 

2,726,216 

664,521 

85,058 

0

1,812,598†

1,352,299†

460,299†

100%

50%†

53,177

88,351

432,347

7,323

2,616

52,268†

1,106,642

2,856,423

559,947

117,735

0

1,895,189†

1,398,647†

496,542†

100%

62%†

2,325,866

2,312,032

0%

0%

   †Third-party data assurance completed by ERM CVS with limited assurance for 2019, 2020 and 2021, and by LRQA for 2018. Most recent statement available on our reporting website.
   *Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions are accounted for in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol. We use the most current emission factors in our inventory each year and site- and supplier-specific factors where available.  

Scope 1 emissions are calculated with U.S. EPA Emission Factors for Greenhouse Gas Inventories. Scope 2 emissions are calculated following both the location-based and the market-based methodologies as defined in the GHG Protocol. 
Location-based factors are taken from the eGRID and International Energy Agency (IEA) datasets for U.S. and international sites, respectively; market-based factors are taken from supplier-specific utility factors (for larger sites), 
Green-e (U.S.), AIB (Europe) and IEA. The latest datasets available at time of publication are used. 

   **We have updated our methodology to reflect well-to-tank impacts and include CH4 and N20. This resulted in a revision to prior year estimates for this category, and therefore Scope 3 totals as well. 
*** Renewable electricity in 2020, 2021 was sourced through a mix of Green-e certified REC products. For our under-construction Ireland site, the utility supplies 100% wind electricity.

52

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix
Appendix

Year ended December 31

Water

Total Withdrawal (Million Liters)

% Withdrawal, Municipal

% Withdrawal, Groundwater

Total Consumption (Million Liters) 

% Consumed in High Baseline Water Stress Areas 

Total Discharge (Million Liters)

% Discharge to Municipal

% Discharge to Waterbody

Water Use Ratio (L/L)**

(Liters of Water Required to Make One Liter of Product)

+Water Replenished in High Water Risk Areas 

(Million Liters per Year) ***

% Replenished****

2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

13,112

74%

26%

7,259

N/A

5,848

68%

32%

1.95

N/A

N/A

13,132

74%

26%

7,559

38%

5,573

66%

34%

1.87

N/A

N/A

12,653†

74%†

26%†

7,290†

38%

5,363†

66%†

34%†

1.88

5,328

73%

13,166†

75%†

25%†

7,407†

37%‡*

5,759†

66%†

34%†

1.82†

5,824

79%‡*

13,355†

79%†

21%†

7,463†

40%*

5,893†

78%†

22%†

1.82†

6,200

85%

     †Third-party data assurance completed by ERM CVS with limited assurance for 2019, 2020 and 2021, and by Trucost for 2018. Most recent statement available on our reporting website.
     ‡Updated from the prior year.
    *Based on WRI’s Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas v3.0 (2019) locations with High or Extremely high baseline water stress, aligned with SASB metric. Prior years used v2.1 of Aqueduct and additional indicators.
   **The Water Use Ratio is calculated based on water withdrawals and production volumes, for cold beverage sites only.  
 ***Total water “replenished” or otherwise restored, protected, conserved in nature through our water stewardship partner projects.
****Progress as the volume of water replenished vs. the projected total need by the end of 2025. All prior water balance projects related to our high-risk areas and coffee volumes are included, going back to 2014. 

Responsible Sourcing - Coffee

Fair Trade Community Development Premiums (Million USD) (Cumulative) (Since 2001)

% Coffee Responsibly Sourced

N/A 

31%

96

65%

107

100%*

116

99.62%**

  *2020 was our final transition year, with 82% of our purchases of green coffee responsibly sourced through third-party certification or verification programs. 

By the end of 2020, all coffee contracted to be received going forward was 100% responsibly sourced.

**During 2021, COVID-19 impacts and shipping delays resulted in a very small amount conventional coffee deliveries. 

53

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix
Appendix

Year ended December 31

2018

2019

2020

2021

Responsible Sourcing – Cocoa

% Cocoa Responsibly Sourced

N/A

N/A

N/A

81%*

*During 2021, 81% of our cocoa purchases were responsibly sourced through third-party sourcing programs. By the end of 2021, all cocoa contracted to be received going forward was 100% responsibly sourced.

Responsible Sourcing – Appliances

Tier 1 Contract Manufacturers

% Suppliers in Program Scope

Number of Facility Audits Competed (Initial and Closure)

Average Initial Audit Score

Average Audit Score Post Closure Audit

% Findings Closed

% Priority Findings Closed

Tier 2 Component Suppliers

% Suppliers in Program Scope

Number of Facility Audits Competed (Initial and Closure)

Average Initial Audit Score

Average Audit Score Post Closure Audit

% Priority Findings Closed

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

100%

8

142

176

50%

N/A

36%

28

71

112

36%

100%

11

109

188

86%

N/A

36%

19

128

156

31%

100%

5

145

152

N/A*

33%

100%

16

125

133

25%

*In 2021, we decided to focus on closing Priority Findings in order to address the most pressing issues in our supply chain in a timely manner. Going forward we will report on percentage of Priority Findings closed 

year-over-year instead of total percentage of findings closed.

Livelihoods

Investments in improving livelihoods of coffee farmers (million USD)

(cumulative) (since 2003) 

Health & Well-Being

60

63

64

71

% Products that Meet Positive Hydration Definition

N/A

N/A

54%

56.5%

*Includes partner brands and fountain, excludes private label. We define a positive hydration product as one that provides a serving of fruits or vegetables OR is below 40 calories per serving with a functional 

attribute or at least 10% Daily Value of a nutrient to encourage.

54

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix
Appendix

Year ended December 31

2018

2019

2020

2021

Employee Engagement

% Annual Survey Participation Rate

% Employee Engagement

% Total Employee New Hire Rate

% Total Employee Turnover Rate

Diversity & Inclusion

% Female Representation in Director and Above Positions

% People of Color Representation in Director and Above Positions*

*Includes only U.S. employees

2021 Global Employee Gender Demographics†

Total Global KDP 

Female

Male

Not Disclosed

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

65%

60%

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

81%

62%

32%

32%

26%

17%

Total

27,276

5,007

22,067

202

Director+ Professional

Other Professional

678

187

480

11

8,696

2,217

6,396

83

89%

71%

16%

41%

28%

17%

Hourly

17,902

2,603

15,191

108

DATA DEFINITIONS:

"Director+ Professional" - CEO, CFO, ELT, SVP, VP, Sr. Director, Director

"Other Professional" - Any employee with a pay rate type of salaried, below Director

"Hourly"- Any employee with a pay rate types "Hourly-Bi-weekly", "Hourly-Weekly", "Daily", "Commission Only"

55

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix
Appendix

2021 U.S. Employee Racial/Ethnicity Demographics†

Total U.S. KDP 

White

Hispanic

Black

Asian

Two or More Races

Total

Female

Male

Not Disclosed

Total

Female

Male

Not Disclosed

Total

Female

Male

Not Disclosed

Total

Female

Male

Not Disclosed

Total

Female

Male

Not Disclosed

Total

21,392

11,117

2,286

8,814

17

4,565

527

4,036

2

3,991

719

3,266

6

699

225

473

1

625

122

502

1

Director+ Professional

Other Professional

611

485

131

351

3

32

4

28

0

24

11

13

0

34

14

20

0

11

4

7

0

6,057

4,287

1,015

2,764

5

757

153

604

0

571

154

414

3

234

97

136

1

124

37

87

0

Hourly

14,748

6,345

1,140

5,699

9

3,776

370

3,404

2

3,420

565

2,852

3

431

114

317

0

490

81

408

1

56

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix
Appendix

2021 U.S. Employee Racial/Ethnicity Demographics† (continued)

Total

Director+ Professional

Other Professional

Hourly

Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander

Native American or Alaska Native

Not Disclosed

Total

Female

Male

Not Disclosed

Total

Female

Male

Not Disclosed

Total

Female

Male

Not Disclosed

Workplace Safety – Manufacturing*

Lost Time Injury Rate

Total Fatalities (work-related)

Total Recordable Injury Rate

85

31

53

1

40

13

27

0

270

70

186

16

2018

0.17

0

1.23

1

0

0

1

1

0

1

0

23

5

15

3

8

4

4

0

2

1

1

0

74

27

41

6

76

27

49

0

37

12

25

0

173

38

128

7

2019

2020

2021

0.23

0

1.23

0.19

0

0.81

0.18

0

0.89

*Includes only owned and operated KDP facilities in the U.S., Mexico and Canada; rates are calculated as frequency of injuries per 100 employees. 2019 and 2020 data revised due to incidents turning recordable after end of calendar year.

Workplace Safety – Direct Store Delivery*

Lost Time Injury Rate

Total Recordable Injury Rate

*Includes only U.S. operations. Rates are calculated as frequency of injuries per 100 employees.

2.0

9.7

1.6

8.2

1.9

6.7

1.3

5.2

57

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix
Appendix

Appendix

Goal Methodology

Goal

Unit of Measure

Baseline  
(year)

Commitment 
Made  
(year)

Target 
Completion  
(year*)

Boundaries

Exclusions

Validated by

Other/Comments

% of total packaging 
by weight

N/A

2019

2025

% of total packaging 
by weight

N/A

2019

2025

% of total plastic 
packaging by weight

N/A

2019

2025

Convert 100% 

of packaging to 

be recyclable or 

compostable  

by 2025

Use 30% post-

consumer recycled 

content across our 

packaging portfolio 

by 2025

Use 25% post-

consumer recycled 
content in our 

plastic packaging  

by 2025

Achieve a 20% 

virgin plastic 

% of virgin plastic 
packaging by weight

2019

2019

2025

reduction across our 

plastic packaging 

portfolio by 2025

Primary, secondary and tertiary 
packaging from KDP owned and operated 
food and beverage manufacturing 
facilities as well as packaging used for 
brewers and brewer accessories

Primary, secondary and tertiary 
packaging from KDP owned and operated 
food and beverage manufacturing 
facilities as well as packaging used for 
brewers and brewer accessories

Third-party bottlers' 
packaging material

TBD

Plastic strapping, 
adhesives, tapes, wood 
pallets, brewers and 
brewer components

Third-party bottlers' 
packaging material

TBD

Plastic strapping, 
adhesives, tapes, wood 
pallets, brewers and 
brewer components 

Primary, secondary and tertiary plastic 
packaging from KDP owned and operated 
food and beverage manufacturing 
facilities, as well as plastic packaging 
used for brewers and brewer accessories

Third-party bottlers' 
packaging material

TBD

Plastic strapping, 
adhesives, tapes, brewers 
and brewer components

Primary, secondary and tertiary virgin 
plastic packaging from KDP owned 
and operated food and beverage 
manufacturing facilities, as well as 
virgin plastic packaging used for 
brewers and brewer accessories

Third-party bottlers' 
packaging material

TBD

Plastic strapping, 
adhesives, tapes,  
brewers and brewer 
components 

We are working with third-party  
bottlers to enable measurement and 
reporting of recyclability.

Ongoing projects to recycle coffee 
brewers are additional to this goal.

We are working with third-party bottlers 
to enable measurement and reporting of 
PCR content.

Ongoing projects to incorporate  
PCR in coffee brewers are additional  
to this goal.

We are working with third-party bottlers 
to enable measurement and reporting of 
PCR content.

Ongoing projects to incorporate  
PCR in coffee brewers are additional  
to this goal.

We are working with third-party 
bottlers to enable measurement and 
reporting of PCR content.

58

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix
Appendix

Goal

Unit of Measure

Send zero waste to 

landfill across our 

operations by 2025

% solid waste, by 
weight, diverted  
from landfill

Baseline  
(year)

Commitment 
Made  
(year)

Target 
Completion  
(year*)

Boundaries

N/A

2019

2025

Solid waste at manufacturing sites only

% of Scope 3 
emissions covered  
by bottler and  
supplier SBTs

Engage bottlers 

and select suppliers 

representing 

50% of Scope 3 

emissions to set 

a science-based 

target by 2024

N/A

2019

2024

The suppliers and bottlers targeted cover 
the Scope 3 categories of purchased 
goods and services, downstream 
transportation and distribution, 
processing of sold products and the  
end-of-life treatment of sold products.

Exclusions

Validated by

Other/Comments

Does not include 
offices or warehouses/
distribution centers 
except in some instances 
of co-location with the 
manufacturing site, or 
any other properties 
that are not production 
facilities.  Nonetheless, 
many of these excluded 
facilities have robust 
recycling and waste 
diversion practices.

None

None

None

SBTi 
(Science 
Based 
Targets 
initiative)

The Scope 3 categories covered for 
bottler and supplier engagement 
are purchased goods and services, 
downstream transportation and 
distribution, processing of sold products 
and the end-of-life treatment of sold 
products will have science-based  
targets by 2024.

For more information on our GHG 
emissions calculation methodology  
and boundaries please refer to our  
CDP Climate disclosure.

Obtain 100% of 

electricity from 

renewable sources 

by 2025

renewable electricity 
purchases as % 
of total electrcity 
purchases

Reduce Scope 1  

and 2 emissions by 

30% by 2030

MTCO2e (metric 
tons carbon dioxide 
equivalents)

N/A

2019

2025

All KDP owned and operated facilities' 
electricity consumption is included. 
Consumption is estimated for some  
small sites.

None

RE100 

None

2018

2019

2030

The reductions targeted are against 
all KDP energy use from owned and 
operated assets and purchased electricity.

Refrigerant leaks 
from HVAC systems in 
facilities

SBTi 
(Science 
Based 
Targets 
initiative)

For more information on our GHG 
emissions calculation methodology  
and boundaries please refer to our  
CDP Climate disclosure.

59

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix
Appendix

Goal

Unit of Measure

Reduce Scope 

3 emissions in 

select categories 

by 15% by 2030

MTCO2e 
(metric tons 
carbon dioxide 
equivalents)

Baseline  
(year)

Commitment 
Made  
(year)

Target 
Completion  
(year*)

Boundaries

2018

2019

2030

The reductions targeted cover the Scope 3 
categories of purchased goods and services 
(PET and glass packaging), fuel and energy-
related activities, upstream transportation and 
distribution and the use of sold products. 

Exclusions

None

Validated by

Other/Comments

SBTi 
(Science 
Based 
Targets 
initiative)

Improve our 

water use 

efficiency by 

20% by 2025

% improvement 
in water use 
ratio (water 
use ratio = 
water in final 
product divided 
by total water 
withdrawals 
and is measured 
as "Liters per 
Liters" or L/L)

Partner with our 

highest water-

risk operating 

communities to 

replenish 100%  

of water used in  

our beverages 

in those 

communities  

by 2025

% water 
replenished of 
projected 2025 
volume used 
in products 
produced at 
highest water-
risk sites and 
water used to 
brew beverages 
with our pods

2017

2019

2025

Cold beverage manufacturing sites

2014

2019

2025

Six focus communities were determined by a 
water risk assessment that utilized the Ecolab 
Water Risk Monetizer and the World Resources 
Institute’s Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas, and expert 
knowledge from LimnoTech. The locations are: 
Houston, Texas; Vernon and Victorville, California; 
and Tecamac, Tehuaacan and Tlajomulco, Mexico.

Water replenishment project water volumes are 
calculated on a yearly basis (ML/year), based on the 
annual volume benefit they deliver. Replenishment 
progress is calculated as a percentage of the goal, 
not of a given year's water consumption. 

Replenish volumes are only counted toward the 
site they are relevant for and only up to 100% of 
that site's projected 2025 volume.

None

Does not include Newbridge, Ireland, 
or Williamson, New York, production 
sites (Newbridge was not fully 
comissioned in 2021; Williamson 
primarily produces fruit sauce for 
our Mott's brand and operations 
are not comparable to typical cold 
beverage bottling operations), coffee 
roasting/packaging sites, offices, 
warehouses/distribution centers and 
any other properties that are not 
cold beverage production facilities.  
Does not include third-party bottlers.

None

LimnoTech

The categories included in KDP's 
absolute reduction commitment 
of scope 3 GHG emissions are 
purchased goods and services  
(PET and glass packaging), fuel  
and energy-related activities, 
upstream transportation and 
distribution and the use of sold 
products. These categories account 
for approximately 20% of our 
Scope 3 emissions. 

For more information on our GHG 
emissions calculation methodology  
and boundaries please refer to our  
CDP Climate disclosure.

Approach is aligned to Beverage 
Industry Environmental Roundtable 
(BIER) definitions and approach. 

The scope of the goal will be 
adjusted for the 2022 reporting 
year to account for the four new 
sites identified as highest water-
risk in 2021.

60

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix
Appendix

Baseline  
(year)

Commitment 
Made  
(year)

Target 
Completion  
(year*)

2017

2017

2020

Goal

Unit of Measure

Responsibly 

source 100% of 

our brewers

# of suppliers that 
have achieved a Silver-
level recognition in a 
Responsible Business 
Alliance audit

% of responsibly 
sourced coffee by 
volume

N/A

2014

Ongoing

Responsibly  

source our 

brewers and 
100% of our 

priority inputs

% of responsibly 
sourced cocoa by 
volume

N/A

2021

2021

Boundaries

Exclusions

Validated by

Other/Comments

All in-scope Core and 
Transactional suppliers 
according to the 
supplier prioritization 
criteria of KDP’s 
Supplier Performance 
Management program.

Soluble and green  
coffee extract; green  
coffee or other coffee 
inputs purchased by 
partners

Cocoa purchased  
by partners

All in-scope Alliance 
and Strategic suppliers 
according to the supplier 
prioritization criteria 
of KDP’s Supplier 
Performance Management 
Program. These include our 
most important appliance, 
finished goods, component, 
accessory and packaging 
suppliers.

All green coffee purchased 
by KDP for owned and 
partner brands.

All cocoa purchased by 
KDP, including if sourced as 
a standalone ingredient or 
within a blended powder 
finished product; including 
if sourced directly or from 
a co-manufacturer or 
processor

Third-party auditors

Suppliers deemed in scope for KDP’s 
Supplier Performance Management program 
are determined by importance to KDP’s 
business based on spend, quality, cost and 
substitutability. Each supplier is categorized 
as Alliance, Strategic, Core or Transactional to 
indicate their level of importance to KDP.

KDP's evaluation tool to accept partner 
programs was independently reviewed by 
Conservation International and WWF.

KDP's evaluation tool to accept partner 
programs was independently reviewed by 
Conservation International and WWF.

Fairtrade 
International, Fair 
Trade USA, The 
Rainforest Alliance/
UTZ, 4C, AtSource 
Entry Verified by 
ofi and Great Lakes 
Coffee MaxTRACE

Purchased volumes 
validated by The 
Rainforest Alliance/
UTZ, Fair Trade 
USA and Fairtrade 
International 

# of brewer  
suppliers that  
Meet or Exceed 
Expectations in a social 
compliance audit

N/A

2021

Ongoing

All Alliance, Strategic and 
Core suppliers in KDP's 
Supplier Performance 
Management Program

Transactional 
suppliers in KDP's 
Supplier Performance 
Management Program

Third-party auditors

Scope for 2021 has expanded to include Core 
suppliers and will be an ongoing effort.

61

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix
Appendix

Goal

Unit of Measure

Baseline  
(year)

Commitment 
Made  
(year)

Target 
Completion  
(year*)

Boundaries

Exclusions

Validated by

Other/Comments

Number of acres

N/A

2021

2030

Coffee, corn (for High Fructose Corn 
Syrup), apple supply chains  

% of total number of 
KDP products

N/A

2021

2025

Positive hydration is defined as a 
product that provides a serving of fruits/
vegetables with no added sugar or is 
below 40 calories per serving with a 
functional attribute or at least 10% daily 
value of a nutrient to encourage. 

All hot, cold, owned, licensed and partner 
brands. Includes fountain beverages and 
all unique portion sizes.

Coffee: Soluble and  
green coffee extract; 
green coffee or other 
coffee inputs purchased 
by partners

Corn: Corn starch,  
citric acid, erythritol,  
corn syrup, soluble corn 
fiber, gin, vodka, brown 
caramel color

Apple: Purees, flakes 

Excludes multi-packs, 
co-packed brands and 
private label

None

Methodology was developed in 
partnership with Terra Genesis 
International with significant stakeholder 
outreach to growers, NGO and industry 
organizations. The first version is publicly 
available on our website. 

 None

Partnership 
for a 
Healthier 
America

% of Director-level 
and above employees

2020

2021

2025

Director-level and above employees in  
all geographies

All employees  
below Director

None

None

Support 

regenerative 

agriculture and 

conservation on 

250,000 acres of 

land by 2030

Provide positive 

hydration in 60%  

of our products  

by 2025

Increase female 

representation in 

Director and above 

positions by 25%  

to 33% of the total 

by 2025

Increase people of 

color representation 

% of Director-level 
and above employees

2020

2021

2025

Director-level and above employees in 
the U.S. only

All employees  
below Director

None

None

in Director and 

above positions by 

25% to 21% of the 

total by 2025

*Goals will be met by the end of the specified year.

62

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  
Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix
Appendix

Appendix

Reporting Framework Indices

Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index

This 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report was created in accordance with GRI Standards: Core option. 

All standards are the GRI 2016 version. Reporting disclosures may not be applied fully for all Standards. 

DISCLOSURE

RESPONSE

Organization Profile

102-1

Name of the organization

102-2

Activities, brands, products, and services

102-3

Location of headquarters

102-4

Location of operations

102-5 Ownership and legal form

102-6 Markets served

102-7

Scale of the organization

102-8

Information on employees and other workers

102-9

Supply chain

102-10

Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain

2021 Form 10-K, Part I, Item 1, page 1

Overview, page 4
2021 Form 10-K, Part I, Item 1, page 1

2021 Form 10-K, Part I, Item 2, page 23

2021 Form 10-K, Part I, Item 2, page 23

2021 Form 10-K, Part I, Item 1, page 1

2021 Form 10-K, Part I, Item 1, page 2

2021 Form 10-K, Part I, Item 1, page 1

People & Communities, pages 33-44
2021 Form 10-K, Part I, Item 1, page 7

Overview, page 7

Supply Chain, pages 20-27
2021 Form 10-K, Part I, Item 1, page 10

Supply Chain, pages 20-27 
2021 Form 10-K, Part I, Item 1, pages 1-11

63

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix
Appendix

DISCLOSURE

RESPONSE

Organization Profile (continued)

102-11

Precautionary Principle or approach

102-12

External initiatives

102-13 Membership of associations 

102-14

Statement from senior decision-maker

KDP supports the precautionary principle to guide its actions and routinely evaluates  

a wide range of risks and takes precautionary steps where warranted.  
Ethics & Compliance

Environment, pages 9-19

Supply Chain, pages 20-27

Health & Well-being, pages 28-33

People & Communities, pages 34-44

Environment, pages 9-19

Supply Chain, pages 20-27

Health & Well-being, pages 28-33

People & Communities, pages 34-44

Strategy

Chairman & CEO and Chief Sustainability 

Officer Letter, page 3

102-15

Key impacts, risk and opportunities

2021 Form 10-K, Part 1, pages 1-11 & Part 1, Item 1A, pages 12-22

102-16

Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 

102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics

Ethics & Integrity

Overview, pages 4-5

Governance, pages 45-49
Ethics & Compliance 

Governance, pages 45-49
Corporate Code of Conduct 
KDP Conflict Minerals Policy

KDP Modern Slavery Statement

64

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix
Appendix

DISCLOSURE

RESPONSE

Organization Profile (continued)

102-18 Governance structure 

102-19

Delegating authority

102-20

Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics 

102-21

Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics

102-22

Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 

102-23

Chair of the highest governance body 

102-24

Nominating and selecting the highest governing body

102-26

Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy

102-27

Collective knowledge of highest governance body

102-28

Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance

102-29

Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts

102-30

Effectiveness of risk management process

102-31

Review of economic, environmental, and social topics

Governance

Governance, pages 45-49
2022 Proxy Statement, pages 11-14
KDP Corporate Governance Principles

Governance, pages 45-49
2022 Proxy Statement, pages 11-14

Governance, pages 45-49
2022 Proxy Statement, page 13
KDP Corporate Governance Principles

KDP Audit and Finance Committee Charter

Governance, pages 45-49
2021 Form 10-K, Part I, Item 1, pages 1-11

Governance, pages 45-49
2022 Proxy Statement, pages 5-10
KDP Corporate Governance Principles

Governance, pages 45-49
2022 Proxy Statement, page 11

Governance, pages 45-49
2022 Proxy Statement, page 5

Governance, pages 45-49
2022 Proxy Statement, pages 11-14

Governance, pages 45-49
2022 Proxy Statement, pages 11-14

Governance, pages 45-49
2022 Proxy Statement, page 13

Governance, pages 45-49
2022 Proxy Statement, pages 11-14

Governance, pages 45-49
2022 Proxy Statement, pages 11-14

Governance, pages 45-49
2022 Proxy Statement, pages 11-14

65

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix
Appendix

DISCLOSURE

RESPONSE

Organization Profile (continued)

102-32

Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting 

102-33

Communicating critical concerns

102-35

Remuneration policies

102-36

Process for determining remuneration

Governance

Governance, pages 45-49
2022 Proxy Statement, pages 11-14

Governance, pages 45-49
2022 Proxy Statement, pages 11-14

2022 Proxy Statement, page 30
KDP Remuneration and Nomination Committee Charter

2022 Proxy Statement, page 30
KDP Remuneration and Nomination Committee Charter

102-37

Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration

2022 Proxy Statement, page 15

102-38

Annual total compensation ratio

2022 Proxy Statement, pages 39-40

Stakeholder Engagement

102-40

List of stakeholder groups

Governance, pages 50-51

102-41

Collective bargaining agreements

2021 Form 10-K, Part I, Item 1, page 7

102-42

Identifying and selecting stakeholders 

102-43

Approach to stakeholder engagement

102-44

Key topics and concerns raised

Governance, pages 50-51

Governance, pages 50-51

Governance, page 50

Reporting Practices

105-45

Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 

2021 Form 10-K, Exhibit 21.1

105-46

Defining report content and topic Boundaries 

102-47

List of material topics 

102-48

Restatements of information

102-49

Changes in reporting 

About this Report, page 50

Goal Methodology, pages 58-62

Governance, page 50

About this Report, page 50

Data Summary, pages 51-57

About this Report, page 50

Goal Methodology, pages 58-62

66

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix
Appendix

DISCLOSURE

RESPONSE

Organization Profile (continued)

102-50

Reporting period 

102-51

Date of most recent report 

102-52

Reporting cycle

Reporting Practices

About this Report, page 50

June 2021

Annual  

102-53

Contact point for questions regarding the report 

KDP welcomes questions about, and feedback on, its corporate responsibility work and  
invites anyone to contact us at sustainability@kdrp.com.

102-54

Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards

About this Report, page 50

102-55 GRI content index

102-56

External assurance 

Management Approach

103-1

Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary

103-2

The management approach and its components

103-3

Evaluation of the management approach

Economic

GRI Index, pages 63-73

About this Report, page 50

Governance, page 50

Goal Methodology, pages 58-62

Governance, page 50

Goal Methodology, pages 58-62

Governance, page 50

Goal Methodology, pages 58-62

201-1

Direct economic value generated and distributed

2021 Form 10-K, Part II, Item 8, page 49

201-2

Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change

2021 Form 10-K, Part I, Item 1A, pages 12-15
2021 CDP Climate Submission

201-3

Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans

2021 Form 10-K, Part I, Item 1, pages 7-8 & Part II, Item 8, page 49

67

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix
Appendix

DISCLOSURE

Economic (continued)

201-1

Infrastructure investments and services supported

203-2

Signficant indirect economic impacts

RESPONSE

Indirect Economic Impacts

Environment, pages 9-19

Supply Chain, pages 20-27

Health & Well-being, page 28-33

People & Communities, pages 34-44

Environment, pages 19-19

Supply Chain, pages 20-27

Health & Well-being, pages 28-33

People & Communities, pages 34-44

Anti-Corruption

205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption

KDP risk assesses our supply base utilizing third-party risk data from Verisk Maplecroft,  

which includes country-level inherent corruption risk.

205-2

Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures

KDP Ethics and Compliance policies

Anti-competitive Behavior

206-1

Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices

KDP Ethics and Compliance policies

Environmental

301-1 Materials used by weight or volume

301-2

Recycled input materials used

Materials

Environment, pages 9-19

Data Summary, pages 51-57

Environment, pages 9-19

Data Summary, pages 51-57

68

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix
Appendix

DISCLOSURE

RESPONSE

Environmental (continued)

302-1

Energy consumption within the organization

302-2

Energy consumption outside of the organization

302-4

Reduction of energy consumption

302-5

Reductions of energy requirements of products and services

303-1 Water withdrawal by source

303-2 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 

305-1

Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions

305-2

Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions

305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions

305-4 GHG emissions intensity

305-5

Reduction of GHG emissions

Energy

Environment, pages 9-19

Data Summary, pages 51-57

Environment, pages 9-19

Data Summary, pages 51-57

Environment, pages 9-19

Data Summary, pages 51-57

Environment, pages 9-19

Data Summary, pages 51-57

Water

Environment, pages 9-19

Data Summary, pages 51-57

Environment, pages 9-19

Data Summary, pages 51-57

Emissions

Environment, pages 9-19

Data Summary, pages 51-57

Environment, pages 9-19

Data Summary, pages 51-57

Environment, pages 9-19

Data Summary, pages 51-57

Environment, pages 9-19

Data Summary, pages 51-57

Environment, pages 9-19

Data Summary, pages 51-57

69

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix
Appendix

DISCLOSURE

RESPONSE

Environmental (continued)

306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination

2021 CDP Climate Submission

Effluents & Waste

306-2 Waste by type and disposal method

Environment, pages 9-19

Data Summary, pages 51-57

Environmental Compliance

307-1 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 

and safety policies and a quality, environmental, health and safety program designed to ensure 

In the normal course of business, KDP is subject to a variety of federal, state and local 

environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. KDP maintains environmental, health 

308-1

New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria

compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The cost of such compliance measures does 

not have a material financial impact on KDP operations.

Supplier Environmental Assessment

We require our most important coffee, appliance, packaging and ingredient suppliers (Tier 1 
and some Tier 2) to certify each year to commit to following KDP’s Supplier Code of Conduct. 
New appliance suppliers in high-risk countries are required to complete a Risk Self-Assessment 

Questionnaire which assigns an environmental risk rating by facility.

Social

401-1

New employee hires and employee turnover

Data Summary, pages 51-57

401-2

403-2

Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary  

or part-time employees

People & Communities, pages 34-44

Occupational Health & Safety

Types of injury and rate of injury, occupation diseases, lost days and absenteeism and 

People & Communities, pages 34-44

number of work-related fatalities

Data Summary, pages 51-57

Employment

70

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix
Appendix

DISCLOSURE

Social (continued)

RESPONSE

Training and Education

404-1

Average hours of training per year per employee

404-2

Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs

People & Communities, pages 34-44

People & Communities, pages 34-44

Data Summary, pages 51-57

404-3

Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews People & Communities, pages 34-44

405-1

Diversity of governance bodies and employees

Diversity and Equal Opportunity

People & Communities, pages 34-44

Governance, pages 45-49

Data Summary, pages 51-57

Child Labor

408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor

assessment process to prioritize audits and other supply chain engagements.

No KDP operations were identified as having significant risks for incidences of child labor 

in 2021. KDP’s Supplier Code of Conduct outlines expectations for the Company’s suppliers 

regarding child labor in their supply chain. Our most important suppliers are asked annually 

to commit to following the KDP Supplier Code of Conduct. The company enforces the Code 

through supplier audits and through purchases of certified/verified products. KDP uses a risk 

409-1

Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced  

or compulsory labor

Supply Chain, pages 20-27

Governance, pages 45-49
KDP Conflict Minerals Report

KDP Modern Slavery Statement

KDP Supplier Code of Conduct 

Forced or Compulsory Labor

No KDP operations were identified as having significant risks for incidences of forced or compulsory 

labor in 2021. KDP’s Supplier Code of Conduct outlines expectations for the Company’s suppliers 

regarding forced or compulsory labor in their supply chain. Our most important suppliers are asked 

annually to commit to following the KDP Supplier Code of Conduct. The company enforces the 

Code through supplier audits and through purchases of certified/verified products. KDP uses a risk 

assessment process to prioritize audits and other supply chain engagements.

Supply Chain, pages 20-27

Governance, pages 45-49
KDP Conflict Minerals Report

KDP Modern Slavery Statement

KDP Supplier Code of Conduct 

71

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix
Appendix

DISCLOSURE

Social (continued)

RESPONSE

Rights of Indigenous Peoples

411-1

Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples

No KDP operations were identified as having significant risks for incidences of violations 

involving rights of indigenous peoples in 2021. KDP’s Supplier Code of Conduct outlines 

expectations for the Company’s suppliers regarding violations involving rights of indigenous 

peoples in their supply chain. Our most important suppliers are asked annually to commit 

to following the KDP Supplier Code of Conduct. The company enforces the Code through 

supplier audits and through purchases of certified/verified products. KDP uses a risk 

assessment process to prioritize audits and other supply chain engagements.

Supply Chain, pages 20-27

Governance, pages 45-49
KDP Conflict Minerals Report

KDP Modern Slavery Statement

KDP Supplier Code of Conduct 

Human Rights Assessment

412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments

412-2

Employee training on human rights policies or procedures

KDP suppliers are held to specific standards, which have been outlined in the  
KDP Supplier Code of Conduct. Our most important suppliers are asked annually to commit  
to following the KDP Supplier Code of Conduct.

KDP requires all employees to undergo training on the Corporate Code of Conduct on an annual 
basis. KDP Procurement is also trained regularly on supply chain human rights risk.
KDP Modern Slavery Statement  

413-1

Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and 

Supply Chain, pages 20-27

development programs

Health & Well-being, pages 28-33

People & Communities, pages 34-44

Local Communities

Environment, pages 9-19

72

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix
Appendix

DISCLOSURE

Social (continued)

RESPONSE

Supplier Social Assessment

414-1

New suppliers that were screened using social criteria

Keurig suppliers are held to specific standards, which have been outlined in the KDP Supplier 
Code of Conduct. We require our most important coffee, appliance, packaging and ingredient 
suppliers to certify each year that they understand and agree to adhere to the KDP Supplier 

Code of Conduct. Our Code includes social criteria aligned to internationally recognized 

standards, including the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the UN 

Global Compact Principles and the International Labour Organisation (ILO) Declaration on 

Fundamental Rights and Principles at Work.

People & Communities, pages 34-44

414-2

Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken

KDP Modern Slavery Statement

415-1

Political contributions

Public Policy

KDP Political Engagement Approach

KDP Political Contributions Policy

Customer Health and Safety

416-1

Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories

Health & Well-being, pages 28-33

417-1

Requirements for product and service information and labeling

Marketing & Labor

Health & Well-being, pages 28-33

KDP follows all regulatory labelling requirements. In addition, consumers can find information 

on all of our cold beverages such as nutritional facts and ingredients (with descriptions) on 
https://www.kdpproductfacts.com/.

417-2

Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labeling

There were no reported incidents of non-compliance in 2021.

417-3

Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications

Health & Well-being, pages 28-33

Customer Privacy

418-1

Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses  

KDP received no substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and 

of customer data

identified no losses of customer data in 2021.

Socioeconomic Compliance

419-1

Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area

KDP had no issues of non-compliance with social or economic laws or regulations in 2021.

73

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix
Appendix

Appendix

Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Index

For additional detail, including assurance on data for the report, see Data Summary.

Non-Alcoholic Beverages

Sustainability Disclosure Topics & Accountability Metrics

Topic

Accounting Metric

Category

Unit of Measure

Code

Response

Fleet Fuel 

Management

Fleet fuel consumed, percentage renewable

Quantitative

Gigajoules (GJ), 
Percentage (%)

FB-NB-110a.1

2,312,032, 0%

Energy  

(1) Operational energy consumed, (2) 

Quantitative

Management

percentage grid electricity, (3) percentage renewable

Gigajoules (GJ), 
Percentage (%)

FB-NB-130a.1

(1)  4,485,756
(2) 43% grid energy
(3) 62% renewable electricity

(1) Total water withdrawn, (2) total water consumed, 

Quantitative

percentage of each in regions with High or Extremely 

High Baseline Water Stress

Thousand cubic 
meters (m3), 
Percentage (%)

FB-NB-140a.1

(1) 13,355, 29%
(2) 7,463, 38%

Water  

Management

Description of water management risks and 

discussion of strategies and practices to mitigate 

Discussion and 
Analysis

those risks

N/A

FB-NB-140a.2 We operate in areas of high baseline water stress, and 

stress is projected to increase over time. Our water 
efficiency target aims to reduce impact to local water 
supplies and our water stewardship efforts implement 
water replenishment and conservation in areas of 
highest water risk where we have operations.

Water Efficiency & Stewardship, pages 17-19
Data Summary, pages 51-57

74

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix
Appendix

Non-Alcoholic Beverages (continued)

Sustainability Disclosure Topics & Accountability Metrics

Topic

Accounting Metric

Category

Unit of Measure

Code

Response

Health & Nutrition

Product Labeling  

& Marketing

Revenue from (1) zero- and low-calorie,  

Quantitative

(2) no-added-sugar, and (3) artificially  

sweetened beverages

Reporting 
Currency

FB-NB-260a.1 We do not report this publicly. However, we do have a 

goal that 60% of our beverages will provide positive 
hydration by 2025. Positive hydration is defined as a 
product that provides a serving of fruits/vegetables 
with no added sugar or is below 40 calories with either 
a functional attribute or at least 10% Daily Value of a 
nutrient to encourage. 

A Balanced Product Portfolio, pages 29-30

Discussion of the process to identify and manage 

products and ingredients related to nutritional and 

Discussion and 
Analysis

health concerns among consumers

N/A

FB-NB-260a.2 A Balanced Product Portfolio, pages 29-30

Percentage of advertising impressions (1) made 

Quantitative

Percentage (%)

FB-NB-270a.1

0%

on children and (2) made on children promoting 

products that meet dietary guidelines

Revenue from products labeled as  

Quantitative

(1) containing genetically modified organisms

(GMOs) and (2) non-GMO

Reporting 

Currency

Transparency & Consumer Information, page 32

FB-NB-270a.2 We do not report this publicly. Per our materiality 

assessment, we have determined this is not a  
material issue for KDP. We comply with the Federal 
bio-engineered labeling law in the U.S. for any product 
containing a bioengineered ingredient.

Number of incidents of non-compliance with

Quantitative

Number

FB-NB-270a.3 0

industry or regulatory labeling and/or

marketing codes

Total amount of monetary losses as a result of

Quantitative

legal proceedings associated with marketing

and/or labeling practices

Reporting 

Currency

FB-NB 270a.4 We do not report this publicly.

(1) Total weight of packaging, (2) percentage  

Quantitative

Packaging Lifecycle 

Management

made from recycled and/or renewable materials,  

and (3) percentage that is recyclable, reusable,  

and/or compostable

Metric tons (t), 
Percentage (%)

FB-NB-410a.1

602,364
24%
92%

Discussion of strategies to reduce the environmental 

impact of packaging throughout its lifecycle

Discussion and 
Analysis

N/A

FB-NB-410a.2 Circular Economy, pages 10-13

Note to FB-NB-270a.1 – The entity shall disclose the applicable dietary guidelines and the methodology used to estimate advertising impressions.
Note to FB-NB-270a.4 – The entity shall briefly describe the nature, context, and any corrective actions taken as a result of the monetary losses.

75

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix
Appendix

Non-Alcoholic Beverages (continued)

Sustainability Disclosure Topics & Accountability Metrics

Topic

Accounting Metric

Category

Unit of Measure

Code

Response

Environmental & 

Suppliers’ social and 

Quantitative

Rate

FB-NB-270a.1

Social Impacts of 

environmental responsibility 

Ingredient Supply 

audit (1) non-conformance rate 

Chain

and (2) associated corrected 

action rate for (a) major and (b) 

minor non-conformances

KDP does not have audit conformance data across all our 2021 priority 
beverage ingredient supply chains, which are: coffee, cocoa, apple, apple juice 
concentrate and cor (for High Fructose Corn Syrup).

The majority of our direct, Tier 1 suppliers are traders and processors. Since 
our risk assessments show that the major social and environmental risks are 
at the farm-level, we focus our social and environmental audits on upstream 
Ingredient suppliers (Tier 2+). In 2021, the scope of these audits included coffee 
(covering 99.62% of our purchases by volume) and cocoa (covering 81% of our 
purchases by volume). Coffee is our top priority beverage ingredient for KDP 
and for our coffee systems business, which contributed 37% of 2021 net sales.  
Cocoa is a minimal contributor to our packaged beverages segment.  

In 2021, 99.62% of our purchases of green coffee by volume were certified 
to third-party environmental and social standards (The Rainforest Alliance/
UTZ, Fairtrade International, Fair Trade USA, 4C) or third-party verified (ofi 
AtSource Entry Verified by ofi, Great Lakes Coffee MaxTRACE). In 2021, 81% 
of our cocoa purchases were certified to either The Rainforest Alliance/UTZ 
and, by the end of 2021, all cocoa contracted to be received going forward is 
100% responsibly sourced. 

With the exception of Great Lakes MaxTRACE (which represented less than 
1% of our total purchases in 2021 and will include an associated third-party 
evaluation in 2022), each of these certification and verification programs 
include third-party audits and corrective action processes for both major 
and minor nonconformities. Suppliers with major nonconformities or failing 
a “Mandatory” or “Zero Tolerance Requirement”, will have their certificate 
cancelled or be withdrawn from the program if they cannot fully address the 
non-conformance within a reasonable time frame. Therefore, the major non-
conformance corrective action rate can be assumed to be 100% because all 
suppliers selling to KDP must have a valid certificate or be in good standing 
with the program operator. For other non-conformities, the acceptable non-
conformance rate, corrective action process, and closure requirements vary by 
program. All programs require closure of non-conformities over time to ensure 
continuous improvement to the relevant standard.

Outside of coffee and cocoa, we began audits in our apple juice concentrate 
supply chain during 2021. Out of our total apple juice concentrate suppliers, 
25% of facilities were in high-risk countries. Out of the total volume produced in 
these facilities in high-risk countries, 98% of our apple juice concentrate volume 
from high-risk countries was processed in facilities that either met or exceeded 
our audit performance requirements.

76

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  
 
 
 
Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix
Appendix

Non-Alcoholic Beverages (continued)

Sustainability Disclosure Topics & Accountability Metrics

Topic

Accounting Metric

Category

Unit of Measure

Code

Response

Ingredient Sourcing

Percentage of beverage  

Quantitative

ingredients sourced from 

regions with High or 

Extremely High Baseline 

Water Stress

Percentage (%) 
by cost

FB-NB-440a.1

In alignment with our CDP Water disclosure, we report the percentage of key 
ingredients (by volume) sourced from areas of water stress, which corresponds 
very closely to reporting the percentage by cost. Based on our most recent risk 
assessment in 2021, the data was as follows:
Coffee: 0%
Fresh apple: 0%
Corn (for High Fructose Corn Syrup): 9%
Apple juice concentrate: 72%

List of priority beverage 

ingredients and description 

Discussion and 
Analysis

of sourcing risks due to 

environmental and social 

considerations

N/A

FB-NB-440a.2 We use Maplecroft Risk Data, as well as other industry group data, to assess our 

ingredients based on Environmental and Social Risk Factors. We consider risk 
level, spend, volume purchased, KDP influence, and other factors to determine the 
prioritization of our ingredients. Our 2021 priority beverage ingredients are: coffee, 
cocoa, apple and corn.

For coffee, our primary risks are farmer profitability, labor conditions and 
climate change. We manage these risks by purchasing 100% of our coffee via 
a credible sourcing program that aligns with our company Supplier Code of 
Conduct and our strict environmental, social, and governance criteria. During 
2021, these programs included The Rainforest Alliance/UTZ Certified, Fair Trade 
USA, Fairtrade International, 4C, AtSource Entry Verified by ofi and Great Lakes 
Coffee MaxTRACE.

For cocoa, our primary risks are farmer profitability, labor conditions, climate 
change and deforestation. We will manage these risks by purchasing cocoa via a 
credible sourcing program that aligns with our company Supplier Code of Conduct 
and our strict environmental, social, and governance criteria. During 2021, our 
accepted programs included Fairtrade International, Fair Trade USA, The Rainforest 
Alliance/UTZ Certified. During 2021, 81% of our cocoa purchases were responsibly 
sourced through third-party sourcing programs. By the end of 2021, all cocoa 
contracted to be received going forward was 100% responsibly sourced.

For our other identified priority inputs, our risks range from pesticide use and 
other environmental impacts (on farm) and labor conditions (on farm and in 
factories). Our strategies to manage these risks via engagements with upstream 
suppliers are in development, prioritizing apple, corn and apple juice concentrate 
for 2021. Nonetheless, KDP’s Supplier Code of Conduct outlines social and 
environmental expectations for the Company’s suppliers. Our most important 
suppliers (Tier 1 and some Tier 2) are asked annually to commit to following the 
KDP Supplier Code of Conduct.

Supply Chain, pages 20-27
KDP Modern Slavery Statement

77

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  
 
 
Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix
Appendix

ACTIVITY METRIC

Topic

Volume of products sold

Category

Quantitative

Unit of Measure

Code

Response

Millions of hectoliters 
(Mhl)

FB-NB-000.A

KDP disclosed revenues by segment.
2021 Form 10-K, Part 2, Item 7, page 28

Number of production facilities

Quantitative

Total fleet road miles traveled

Quantitative

Number

Miles

FB-NB-000.B

2021 Form 10-K, Part 1, Item 2, page 23

FB-NB.000.C

44,999,016

Appliance Manufacturing

Sustainability Disclosure Topics & Accountability Metrics

Topic

Accounting Metric

Category

Unit of Measure

Code

Response

Number of (1) recalls issued and (2) total units recalled  Quantitative

Number

CG-AM-250a.1

0 appliance recalls

Discussion of process to identify and manage 

Discussion and 

N/A

CG-AM-250a.2 Product Safety & Quality, page 33

Product Safety

safety risks associated with the use of its products

Analysis

Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal 

Quantitative

proceedings associated with product safety 

Percentage of eligible products by revenue certified 

Quantitative

to the ENERGY STAR® program

Reporting 
Currency

Percentage (%) 
by revenue

GC-AM-250a.3 We do not report this publicly. 

CG-AM-410a.1

0

Percentage of eligible products certified to an 

Quantitative

Percentage (%) 

CG-AM-410a.2 0

Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers 

by revenue

(AHAM) sustainability standard

Description of efforts to manage products’ end-

Discussion and 

N/A

CG-AM-410a.3 Across the U.S. and Canada, we offer a program 

of-life impacts

Analysis

to select retailers to send in-store returned Keurig 

brewers to be recycled responsibly through a  

third-party partner. Utilization of this program by  

our retailers varies. In Canada, we also offer a recycling 

program for our commercial brewers through the  

Van Houtte Coffee Services.

Category

Unit of Measure

Code

Response

Quantitative

Number of units

CG-AM-000.A KDP discloses revenues by segment.

2021 Form 10-K, Part 2, item 7, page 28

Product Lifecycle 

Environmental 

Impacts

ACTIVITY METRIC

Topic

Annual production 

  Note to CG-AM-250a.1 – The entity shall discuss notable recalls such as those that affected a significant number of units of one product or those related to serious injury or fatality.
  Note to CG-AM-250a.3 – The entity shall briefly describe the nature, context, and any corrective actions taken as a result of the monetary losses.
  Note to CG-AM-000.A – Production shall be disclosed as the number of units produced by product category, where relevant product categories may include small appliances and major appliances.

78

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix
Appendix

Appendix

2020 Task Force on Climate-Related 
Financial Disclosures Index

Given the immense affect climate change poses for business, now and in the future, the Financial Stability Board’s 

Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) was established to help identify the information needed by 

investors, lenders, and insurance underwriters to appropriately assess and price climate-related risks and opportunities.  

In alignment with the TCFD recommendations, the following index provides links to KDP’s key disclosures on climate 

change, including our CDP climate change response and this current 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report.

TCFD Metrics

Response

Describe the board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities.

2021 CDP Climate Submission (FY 2020 Reporting): C1.1, C1.1a, C1.1b

Climate, Emissions & Energy, pages 14-16

Governance, pages 45-49

Governance 

Describe management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related risks  

2021 CDP Climate Submission (FY 2020 Reporting): C1.2, C1.2a, C1.3a 

and opportunities.

Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organization has identified 

over the short, medium, and long term.

Climate, Emissions & Energy, pages 14-16

Governance, pages 45-49

2021 CDP Climate Submission (FY 2020 Reporting): C2.1, C2.2, C2.3, C2.4 
2021 Form 10-K, Part 1, Item IA, pages 19 
Our Corporate Responsibility Strategy, page 5 

Climate, Emissions & Energy, pages 14-16

Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the 

2021 CDP Climate Submission (FY 2020 Reporting): C2.3a, C2.4a, C3.1 

Strategy

organization’s business, strategy, and financial planning.

Our Corporate Responsibility Strategy, page 5

Climate, Emissions & Energy, pages 14-16

Describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking into consideration 

KDP has completed qualitative climate risk assessments using 1.5°C and 4°C 

different climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenario.

scenarios, which will be further described in our CDP climate questionnaire 

response for calendar year 2021, to be filed in the second half of 2022. 
2021 CDP Climate Submission (FY 2020 Reporting): C3.2, C3.2b, C3.3

Our Corporate Responsibility Strategy, page 5 

Climate, Emissions & Energy, pages 14-16

79

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix
Appendix

TCFD Metrics

Response

Describe the organization’s processes for identifying and assessing  

2021 CDP Climate Submission (FY 2020 Reporting): C3.2, C3.2b, C3.3

climate-related risks.

Climate, Emissions & Energy, pages 14-16

Governance, pages 45-49

Risk  

Management

Describe the organization’s processes for managing climate-related risks.

2021 CDP Climate Submission (FY 2020 Reporting): C3.3, C3.4 

Climate, Emissions & Energy, pages 14-16

Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and managing climate-related 

2021 CDP Climate Submission (FY 2020 Reporting): C3.3, C3.4 

risks are integrated into the organization’s overall risk management.

Climate, Emissions & Energy, pages 14-16

Governance, pages 45-49

Disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess climate-related risks  

2021 CDP Climate Submission (FY 2020 Reporting): C3.3, C4.1a, C4.2a, C4.2b

and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk management process.

Climate, Emissions & Energy, pages 14-16

Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and if appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) 

2021 CDP Climate Submission (FY 2020 Reporting): C6 C-FB6.6a, C-FB6.9, 

Metrics  

and Targets

emissions, and the related risks.

C-FB6.9a

Climate, Emissions & Energy, pages 14-16 

Data Summary, pages 51-57

SASB Index, pages 74-78

Describe the targets used by the organization to manage climate-related risks and 

2021 CDP Climate Submission (FY 2020 Reporting): C4.1a, C4.2a 

opportunities and performance against targets.

Climate, Emissions & Energy, pages 14-16

80

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview

Environment

Supply Chain

Health & Well-Being

People & Communities

Governance

Appendix
Appendix

Footnotes

All information regarding our brand market positions in the U.S. is based on retail market dollars in 2021. 
U.S. beverage information is from IRi; U.S. brewing system information is from NPD.

Retail sales 52 weeks: US NPD (brewers) 12/25/2021, IRi MULO+C $ 12/26/2021; Canada NPD (brewers) 
12/25/2021, Nielsen $ 8/31/2021, ACD volume 12/25/2021 (RTD Alcohol); Mexico Nielsen volume 12/25/2021.

18.  Methodologies for our commitment to 100% responsibly sourced apples, apple juice concentrate and corn  

(for high fructose corn syrup) are in development. During 2021, coffee sourced was 99.62%, as COVID-19 impacts 
and shipping delays resulted in a very small amount conventional coffee deliveries. In addition, 81% of our 
cocoa purchases were responsibly sourced through third-party sourcing programs. By the end of 2021, all cocoa 
contracted to be received going forward was 100% responsibly sourced.

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

On January 6, 2022, Keurig Canada Inc. entered into a Consent Agreement with The Commissioner of 
Competition in Canada settling an inquiry related to Keurig’s representations around recyclability of its 
K-cup pods. The Consent Agreement resulted in Keurig enhancing its communications, reminding consumers 
to verify whether K-Cup pods are accepted in their municipality’s recycling program and, if so, follow any 
additional steps that may be necessary to prepare the pods for recycling. Additionally, Keurig paid an 
administrative monetary penalty of CA$3M and a donation to an environmental charity. The Consent 
Agreement carries a Term of five years.

Based on weight comparison from 2019 to 2021 for U.S., Canada and Mexico.

According to The Recycling Partnership.

America’s Leading Beverage Companies Highlight Nationwide Effort to Improve Recycling Infrastructure 
During ‘America Recycles Week’.

Rethinking plastic packaging recycling Solutions towards increased circularity in Quebec and Canada; 
Circular Plastics Taskforce, September 2021.

The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. 

SBTi 2025 scenarios were aligned to the Paris Agreement climate change goal of limiting global warming 
to well below 2°C above pre-industrial levels. In 2021, SBTi scenarios were adjusted for companies to be 
aligned to a 1.5°C pathway by 2030 and Net Zero by 2050 (90% reduction across all Scope 1, 2 and 3 
emissions, with all remaining value chain emissions neutralized by purchases of carbon removal offsets). 
Our planned actions in 2022 will allow KDP to explore revising our goals, as appropriate, no later than 
2024, prior to the expiration of existing SBTs in 2025.

LEED certified buildings save money, improve efficiency, lower carbon emissions and create healthier 
places for people. They are a critical part of addressing climate change and meeting ESG goals, enhancing 
resilience, and supporting more equitable communities. To achieve LEED certification, a project earns 
points by adhering to prerequisites and credits that address carbon, energy, water, waste, transportation, 
materials, health and indoor environmental quality. https://www.usgbc.org/leed. Office energy use 
accounts for a small portion of operations energy use.

Based on reduction of propane gas usage replaced with electric from 2019 to 2021. Forklifts account for a 
minor portion of fleet emissions.

Assumes rPET or vPET granulate + injection moulding to preform + blow moulding to bottle with 
appropriate process efficiencies included. Wernet, G., Bauer, C., Steubing, B., Reinhard, J., Moreno-Ruiz, 
E., and Weidema, B., 2016. The ecoinvent database version 3 (part I): overview and methodology. The 
International Journal of Life Cycle Assessment, 21(9), pp.1218–1230. 

13. 

Ellen Macarthur Foundation. Completing the Picture: How the Circular Economy Tackles Climate Change; 
Recirculating Materials, pg. 23, September 29, 2019.

14. 

Excludes Spartanburg, South Carolina, facility, as it was not fully operational in 2021.

15. 

Starting in 2021 and moving forward, we are excluding our Williamson, N.Y. plant from our measurement of 
beverage water efficiency, and have restated our 2017 baseline and goal progress with that exclusion. We 
plan to establish a site-specific goal for this facility that reflects its unique portfolio of products within our 
supply chain. See the Data Summary and Goal Methodology.

16.  Global Business Leaders Unite for Water Resilience, The Water Resilience Coalition.

17. 

Largest buyer status designated by Fair Trade USA and based on purchases for both KDP-owned  
and partner brands.

19. 

See the KDP Modern Slavery Statement for additional details.  

20.  For more detail on KDP’s supplier risk assessment processs, see the Modern Slavery Statement.  

21. 

See the Product Specific Standards document, which is the final page of our Supplier Code of Conduct.  

22.  We accept RBA, Sedex Member Ethical Audits (SMETA), SA 8000 and BSCI audit reports.

23. 

Silver-level recognition is defined as scoring 160 out of 200 on a RBA Validated Assessment Program (VAP)  
audit with no Priority Findings.

24. 

Facilities in our initial scope make up about 40% of our total current suppliers.

25.  See pages 25 and 56 in KDP’s 2020 Corporate Responsibility Report.

26. 

Includes all owned, licensed and partner beverage brands, excludes private label.

27. 

Food Insight, 2019; Nielsen, 2019.

28.  U.S. Food and Drug Administration definition of “low calorie”, Code of Federal Regulations, Title 21.

29. 

European Commission: “A food product that together with its basic nutritional impact has a beneficial effect on 
one or more functions of the human organism either improving the general physical conditions or/and decreasing 
the risk of the evolution of disease.” Orrù S, et al. Nutrients. 2018.

30.  Drewnowski A, et.al. Nutr Rev. 2019; Dietary Guidelines for Americans, 2020-2025.

31. 

Per 8 fluid oz.

32.  Based on IRi dollar sales through December 26, 2021.

33. 

34. 

35. 

The 2020 National BCI Progress Report was published October 14, 2021, due to delayed data from the U.S. Census 
Bureau and other data collection disruptions. 

Finding Balance, The Conference Board of Canada; Canadian Beverage Association’s Balance Calories Initiative; 
December 11, 2020.

The 2020 Communities BCI Progress Report was published October 14, 2021, due to delayed data from the U.S. 
Census Bureau and other data collection disruptions.  

36.  Based on IRi dollar sales through December 26, 2021.

37. 

100% of our U.S. salaried employees receive an annual performance review. Our hourly workforce receives  
on-going feedback and coaching throughout the year.

38.  Based on completed training hours of full-time, salaried employees in 2021.

Photo Credits: Erik Enbody (page 18); Lucia Bawot (page 27: Strengthening Climate Resilience and Protecting 
Watersheds in Colombia); Kropatsch Farms (page 27: Supporting Nebraska Corn Farmers to Boost Resiliency Via 
Cover Cropping)

All amounts expressed in U.S. dollars unless otherwise noted.

All brands owned by their respective trademark owners. All rights reserved.

81

2021 Corporate Responsibility Report 