2020 Corporate  
Responsibility Report 

Table of Contents

OVERVIEW 

A Letter from our Chairman & CEO and CSO 

Our Company 

Key Highlights 

Our Corporate Responsibility Strategy 

Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality 

Goals & Progress 

Responding to COVID-19 

ENVIRONMENT 

Product Design & Circular Economy 

Resource Use & Conservation 

Water Efficiency & Stewardship 

Climate, Emissions & Energy 

SUPPLY CHAIN 

Responsible Sourcing 

Improving Livelihoods 

Restoring Nature 

HEALTH & WELL-BEING 

Consumer Health & Well-being 

Responsible Marketing & Labeling 

Product Quality & Food Safety 

3

3

4

5

6

8

9

10

11

12

15

16

18

20

21

23

26

27

28

30

31

About This Report

Keurig Dr Pepper (KDP) has reported on 
its corporate responsibility program since 
the Company was formed in July 2018. 
This progress report focuses on the goals, 
programs and initiatives that encompass 
our key corporate responsibility efforts for 
2020. In addition, we have created a Data 
Summary, which can be found at the end 
of this report. Unless otherwise noted, this 
report covers data and activities for calendar 
year 2020 from KDP’s wholly owned 
operations, which are primarily located in the 
U.S., Canada and Mexico. The content covers 
the parts of our business in which we have 
operational control and does not include 
joint ventures, franchised or outsourced 
operations, except where noted. Selected 
data and information on our global supply 
chain activities are also included. 

We have expanded the scope of independent 
verification for 2020 to include more 
environmental metrics, assurance on the 
Environmental and Supply Chain sections 
of the report, and assurance for applicable 
Sustainability Accounting Standards 
Board (SASB) standards. This assurance 
was conducted by ERM Certification and 
Verification Services. The assured data 
points are flagged in the Data Summary and 
SASB index, both located in the Appendix of 
this report. To view the ERM CVS assurance 
statement, please visit here  .

This report was created in accordance with 
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards 
Core option. The GRI Index can be found in 
the Appendix.

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES 

Employee Health & Safety  

Employee Engagement & Development 

Diversity & Inclusion 

Community Engagement 

GOVERNANCE 

Board Management & Oversight 

Ethics & Compliance 

Human Rights 

APPENDIX  

Data Summary 

Goal Methodology 

Stakeholder Engagement 

Reporting Framework Indices (GRI, SASB, TCFD) 

32

33

35

37

39

41

42

43

44

45

45

52

58

61

OVERVIEW
OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX

A Letter from our Chairman & CEO 
and Chief Sustainability Officer 

In the wake of the historic events of 2020, our resolve 

100% of our coffee and to engage more than one million 

Underpinning all our efforts is a commitment to 

to be a driving force for good for our employees, our 

people in our supply chain to improve their livelihoods.  

accountability and integrity through a strong corporate 

communities, our stakeholders and our planet has  

We are now expanding our responsible sourcing program 

governance framework. As KDP evolved from a controlled 

never been stronger. We are proud of the ambitious  
Drink Well. Do Good. corporate responsibility program  
we established shortly after our July 2018 merger,  

across our other high priority inputs, and making a bold, 

company to a widely held one in 2020, we enhanced the 

new commitment to support regenerative agriculture to 

structure and diversity of our Board, including creating the 

protect farm ecosystems against the growing threat of 

position of Lead Independent Director. The oversight and 

and our organization has been on a mission to make  

climate change. Both of these new goals are designed 

collaboration from our Board will continue to support the 

a positive impact ever since.  

to expand our impact in addressing social and economic 

rigor around our corporate responsibility efforts, among 

inequalities in our supply chain.

other priorities across the business.

We are pleased to share that, in addition to prioritizing 

employee health and safety during the pandemic 

As a beverage company, we support consumer choice and aim 

At Keurig Dr Pepper, we remain steadfast in our 

and fulfilling our role as an essential business for our 

to offer a beverage for every need, everywhere consumers 

commitment to making a positive impact and, while we 

customers and communities, we achieved many of our 

shop and consume. We share in this report a new goal to 

recognize that there is always more work to be done, we 

longstanding corporate responsibility goals this past year.  

provide positive hydration, which focuses on developing and 

are proud of the progress we continued to make and the 

We also set new commitments in both established and 

expanding our offerings of products with nutritional and 

passion demonstrated by our nearly 27,000 employees.  

new areas, including health and well-being, diversity and 

functional benefits. This commitment was developed with 

They remain our true competitive advantage and an 

inclusion and environmental stewardship.

input from experts in the fields of public health and nutrition, 

inspiration for what’s possible when we work together 

In 2020, we advanced the circularity of several key 

products in our portfolio, including the achievement of our 

goal to make 100% of our K-Cup pods recyclable, while 

leading collaborative industry efforts to invest in critical 

recycling infrastructure improvements. Our sustainable 

packaging efforts, in concert with other initiatives, are 

focused on safeguarding the health of the planet by 

reducing our energy use and greenhouse gas emissions – 

supporting the achievement of the science-based targets 

we set last year.  

among others, and we will continue to engage with outside, 

towards a common purpose. On behalf of our Board  

credentialed resources to shape our efforts.

and our team members, we look forward to sharing  

our continued progress on this important journey. 

Our health and well-being focus is also centered on 

our employees and their families, and we remain 

driven to support our team through robust benefits 

and career development, while upholding a culture of 

respect, inclusivity and trust. In 2020, we accelerated 

our diversity and inclusion efforts and are announcing 

in this report new employee representation goals to 

help ensure our organization increasingly reflects the 

consumers and communities we serve. We have also 

We continued to take proactive steps to improve the 

launched eight new Employee Resource Groups to 

well-being of the people and communities within our 

support our culture by creating space for our colleagues 

supply chain. We achieved our goals to responsibly source 

to build connection and community.

Bob Gamgort 
Chairman &  
Chief Executive Officer

Monique Oxender
Chief Sustainability Officer

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

3

OVERVIEW
OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX

Our Company

Our vision is to provide a beverage 
for every need, available everywhere 
consumers shop

WHO WE ARE

OWNED, LICENSED  
AND PARTNER BRANDS

INCLUDING:

FOOD & BEVERAGE COMPANY IN THE U.S. 

~27,000
EMPLOYEES

30+

MANUFACTURING  
LOCATIONS

160+

PRINCIPAL WAREHOUSES / 
DISTRIBUTION CENTERS

11.6

BILLION 

45+

BILLION 
BILLION 

NET SALES  
IN 2020 

MARKET CAP AS  
OF END OF 2020  

 2 HEADQUARTERS:  

FRISCO, TX 
BURLINGTON, MA

CATEGORY LEADERSHIP

SINGLE SERVE 
BREWING SYSTEMS

in:

in:

FLAVORED CARBONATED 
SOFT DRINKS

MIXERS

PREMIUM WATER

FRUIT JUICE/DRINKS

SHELF-STABLE  
PREMIUM READY- 
TO-DRINK TEA

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

4

® 
OVERVIEW
OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX

Key Highlights

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

Converted all K-Cup 
pods to recyclable 
polypropylene plastic

Powered our total hot 
production network 
with 100% renewable 
electricity 

Launched three new 
water stewardship 
projects in high water-
risk operating areas

Awards & Recognition

Achieved 100% 
responsibly sourced 
coffee for our owned  
and partner brands 

Engaged 1 million+ 
people in our coffee 
supply chain to 
significantly improve 
their lives

Committed to supporting 
regenerative agriculture 
or conservation on  
250k acres of land

HEALTH & 
WELL-BEING

Committed to  
60% positive hydration 
products by 2025

Increased transparency  
on labeling and 
marketing of  
our products 

Launched new  
better-for-you 
offerings across 
multiple categories

PEOPLE & 
COMMUNITIES

Implemented  
robust Employee 
Health and Safety 
Program at onset  
of COVID-19

Committed to two  
new employee 
diversity goals

Donated 4 million 
beverages and 
thousands of brewers 
in support of frontline 
healthcare workers

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

5

OVERVIEW
OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX

Our Corporate 
Responsibility 
Strategy 

Our Ambition: Ensure our beverages  
make a positive impact with every drink.

KDP’s broad portfolio of hot and cold beverages and 

nearly 27,000 employees give us many opportunities 
to be a catalyst for good. Our Drink Well. Do Good. 
corporate responsibility platform focuses our energy 

and resources on areas in which we believe we 

can have the greatest impact. We are committed 

to partnership, innovation, transparency and 

investment as we work to deliver progress.

ENVIRONMENT
Refreshingly Responsible

We are committed to reducing our 

environmental impacts while restoring  

resources for a regenerative and circular 

economy. From eliminating packaging waste  

to reducing our emissions, we partner to protect 

and replenish the earth’s valuable resources. 

SUPPLY CHAIN
Good From the Start

We use our buying power for good with a 

commitment to responsible sourcing across 

our supply chain. We work with suppliers and a 

range of innovative partners around the world 

to improve livelihoods and restore nature.

HEALTH & 
WELL-BEING
Better Choices, Better Lives

We strive to make a positive impact by 

offering a broad, well-balanced portfolio that 

is accessible to all consumers. We partner with 

leading organizations to accelerate our portfolio 

innovation and transparency. 

PEOPLE & 
COMMUNITIES
Meaningful Engagement

We are committed to creating a work 

environment in which all voices are heard, 

employees feel supported and talent can  

thrive. Extending our efforts beyond our 

workplace, we engage locally to build strong, 

vibrant communities.

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

6

OVERVIEW
OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX

Our Commitment to the UN Sustainable Development Goals 

The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were developed to address 

the global challenges facing our current world and represent the transformative power  

of collective action. We have aligned our corporate responsibility strategy with several  

of these important initiatives, as we work toward achieving our goals. We focus on SDGs  

that align with our highest-priority issues across our value chain and for which we can  

most directly contribute. 

A L I G N I N G   U N   S D GS  AC R O SS   O U R  VA LU E   C H A I N

SOURCING

PRODUCTION

DISTRIBUTION

USE & CONSUMPTION

POST-CONSUMER

At our manufacturing facilities, 
we collaborate to use water, 
energy and ingredients 
efficiently to produce our 
beverages. We’re committed 
to sourcing electricity from 
renewable sources to reduce  
our greenhouse gas emissions, 
with our hot production 
network currently using  
100% renewable energy.

Our distribution capabilities 
across North America enable 
us to align our operations with 
our customers and our sales 
channels, to ensure our products 
are available to meet consumer 
demand and to reduce costs 
and our climate impact. 
We’re focused on reducing 
our greenhouse gas emissions 
through fleet fuel efficiency and 
network optimization.

We are responding to changing 
consumer preferences by evolving 
our product portfolio, offering 
choices that deliver beneficial 
nutrients, reduced calories 
or lower sugar. We are also 
focused on sustainability, with 
particular attention to increasing 
the recyclability of our product 
packaging as well as adding more 
products that use post-consumer 
recycled content. 

We invest in numerous initiatives 
to improve recycling infrastructure 
and recycling behaviors – most 
notably as a co-founder in both the 
Polypropylene Recycling Coalition 
and the Every Bottle Back program.
We are also increasing our recycled 
content in Keurig brewers. Our Core 
Hydration, 16 oz. Snapple and  
500 mL Aguafiel Natural  
beverages bottles now use  
100% recycled plastic.

We are committed to responsibly 
sourcing our priority inputs and 
our brewers. Across our global 
supply chain, KDP partners 
to promote natural resource 
protection, ecosystem resilience, 
human rights, worker well-being 
and farmer profitability. Since 
2014, we’ve engaged over  
1M people in our supply chain to 
improve their lives. We’re also 
strengthening climate resilience 
by supporting regenerative 
agriculture and are focused on 
increasing our use of post-
consumer recycled content to 
reduce our use of virgin plastic.

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

7

OVERVIEW
OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX

Stakeholder 
Engagement & 
Materiality

We engage a broad range of stakeholders, including 

High

suppliers, partners, customers, regulatory agencies, 

non-governmental organizations (NGOs), consumers, 

employees, investors and others. We maintain ongoing 

dialogue through collaboration and leverage their expertise, 

insights, influence and energy to elevate our performance 

and find new solutions to common challenges. These 

engagements occur at the staff and executive leadership 

levels to ensure integration of new and innovative ideas 

across our organization. Learn more about our approach to 
Stakeholder Engagement   in our Appendix.

Understanding our priority Environmental, Social and 

Governance (ESG) issues informs how we develop our 

corporate strategy, invest our resources and report on our 

business and corporate responsibility efforts. In early 2021, 

we conducted our first formal materiality assessment as 

KDP, to ensure that we are focused on the issues in which 

we can have the greatest impact across our value chain.

The materiality analysis included an evaluation of emerging 

trends and internal and external stakeholder input. The 

outcome of this process was our new materiality matrix, 

which outlines a total of 30 non-financial issues ranked 

in relation to most important to stakeholders and most 

impactful to the business. A total of 15 issues were 

identified as being our highest priority. Moving forward,  

we plan to conduct a materiality analysis on a regular basis 

l

s
r
e
d
o
h
e
k
a
t
S
o
t
e
c
n
a
t
r
o
p
m

I

Materiality Matrix

Climate Change & Greenhouse Gas (GHG Emissions)

Product Design & 
Circular Economy

Human 
Rights

Product Quality & Safety

Responsible 
Sourcing

Employee Health,  
Safety & Well-being
Corporate Governance & Ethics

Supply Chain Resiliency

Living Wage

Water Use & Stewardship

Resource Use & Conservation

Diversity, Equity & Inclusion

Energy Use/Renewable Energy
Regenerative/Sustainable Agriculture

Innovation & R&D

Consumer Health & Well-being

Employee Engagement & Development

Stakeholder Engagement

Product Labeling
Responsible Marketing

Regulation & Taxation

Deforestation

Biodiversity

Transportation Emissions

Data Privacy & Protection

Economic Downturns & Periods of Uncertainty

Community Development

Advocacy & Public Policy

Philanthropy

GMOs/Bioengineered Ingredients

to ensure we take into consideration the evolving ESG 

Moderate

landscape. We describe information about our approach  

to and progress on these issues throughout this report and 
in the Reporting Framework Indices   in this report.

Impact to the Business

Environment

Social

Governance, Ethics and Strategy

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

High

8

 
 
OVERVIEW
OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX

Goals & Progress

Year Goal

2020 100% of K-Cup pods recyclable

For detail on methodologies and boundaries for our goals, see our Goal Methodology Table  .

2018 Actual

2019 Actual

2020 Actual

2025

100% of packaging to be recyclable or compostable

2025

30% post-consumer recycled content used across packaging portfolio

2025

25% post-consumer recycled content used across plastic packaging portfolio

2025

20% virgin plastic reduction across plastic packaging portfolio

2025 Send zero waste to landfill across our operations

ENVIRONMENT

2025

Partner with our highest water-risk operating communities to replenish 100% of water used for our 
beverages in those communities

2025

20% improvement in water use efficiency

2025

100% electricity used in operations from renewable sources

2030 30% reduction in Scope 1 and 2 emissions

2030 15% reduction in Scope 3 emissions in select categories

2024 Engage bottlers and select suppliers representing 50% of Scope 3 emissions to set a science-based target

17%

2020 100% responsibly sourced coffee

2020 100% responsibly sourced brewers

SUPPLY CHAIN

2020 1M people engaged in our supply chain to significantly improve their lives

NEW: Responsibly source our brewers and 100% of our priority inputs

NEW: Advance inclusion by addressing barriers to entry and prosperity in our supply chain

NEW: Support regenerative agriculture and conservation on 250K acres of land by 2030

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

NEW:  Provide positive hydration in 60% of KDP products by 2025

31%

50%

630K

10%

86%

20%

0.3%

N/A

86%

73%

3%

28%

0%

0%

70%

87%

20%

0.4%

100%

90%

22%

2%

Baseline Year

1%

88%

73%

4%

47%

11%

0%

32%

65%

63%

783K

92%

79%

7%

50%

7%

-23%

38%

100%*

86%

1.1M

2020 13.5M kids and families provided play opportunities

12.9M

14.2M

14.6M**

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

NEW: Increase female representation in Director and above positions by 25% by 2025

NEW: Increase people of color representation in Director and above positions by 25% by 2025

  Note: our recyclable K-Cup pods are made from polypropylene (#5) plastic. 

*   During 2020, 82% of our purchases of green coffee were responsibly sourced through third party sourcing programs. By the end of 2020, all coffee contracted to be received going forward is 100% responsibly sourced. 
** Including approximately 400,000 kids that will benefit from awards provided in early 2020, as the pandemic delayed  construction, which is now underway.

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

9

OVERVIEW
OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX

Responding to 
COVID-19

The outbreak of COVID-19 profoundly changed our lives, 

our work and the ways we interact with one another.  

We responded by refocusing our Company mission  

under the banner of ONE KDP – underscoring our 

commitment to keep our employees safe and healthy, 

deliver for our customers and consumers and provide  

for our communities. Throughout the year, our employees 

responded by showing resilience and creativity as they 

manufactured and delivered the essential goods our 

communities need.

Keep Employees Safe And Healthy

Our first priority, always, is to keep our employees safe 

and in the trade. We also enhanced our technology and 

collaboration tools to support office employees who were 

transitioned to working from home, and we provided 

support through financial incentives, enhanced paid sick 

time and childcare assistance in addition to our Employee 

Assistance Program. 

Deliver For Our Customers & Consumers

Provide For Our Communities  

Through our Fueling the Frontline program, we provided 
four million cups of coffee and other beverages, along with 

thousands of brewers, to more than 500 hospitals in the 

U.S. and Canada in support of healthcare workers on the 

frontline of the crisis. We also made product donations 

to local health institutions in Mexico. Additionally, we 

gifted our 21,000 frontline employees with a free brewer 

and healthy. We have taken extraordinary precautions 

We continued to deliver for our customers and consumers, 

and coffee pods, as recognition for their hard work 

to do so, while also providing support to our employees 

diligently working around the clock to fulfill strong 

and dedication, and empowered our U.S employees 

and their families during this unprecedented time. Early in 
the pandemic, we developed a 6-Point Employee Health 
and Safety Program to prioritize employee safety and 
operational continuity. New procedures included daily 

demand. We leveraged proprietary data and insights to 

working remotely to recognize an essential worker in 

quickly adapt to changes in shopping behaviors, flexing to 

their own community with a free brewer and coffee. 

navigate significant channel shifts as consumer mobility 

We also donated $250,000 to the National Restaurant 

slowed during the pandemic. We also continued to 

Association Education Foundation Employee Relief Fund 

temperature checks and health screenings, extensive 

deliver robust brand innovation, bringing consumers new 

to support cash grants provided to U.S. restaurant workers 

sanitization practices, face covering mandates and social 

offerings across brewers, coffee, carbonated soft drinks, 

financially impacted by the COVID-19 crisis.

distancing protocols for team members in our facilities 

juice and water, among others.

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

10

ENVIRONMENT
Reducing Our Footprint,  
Restoring Resources

At KDP, we are committed to reducing our environmental 

impact, while restoring resources for a circular economy.  

From removing material in packaging and using more recycled 

content, to designing all our packaging to be recyclable or 

compostable, we are on a mission to eliminate packaging 

waste. We also embrace our responsibility to contribute to 

solutions that reduce greenhouse gas emissions and conserve 

resources like water, with the objective of building resiliency to 

climate change. Guided by our sustainability ambitions, we are 

activating plans and driving new initiatives that deliver on our 

commitment to environmental stewardship.

I N  T H I S   S E C T I O N

Product Design & Circular Economy  

Resource Use & Conservation  

Water Efficiency & Stewardship  

Climate, Emissions & Energy  

 
OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT
ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX

Product Design & 
Circular Economy

2020   G OA L

P R O G R E SS

D
E
V
E
H
C
A

I

100% of K-Cup 

pods recyclable

100%

2025   G OA L S

P R O G R E SS

100% of packaging 

recyclable or compostable

90%

30% post-consumer recycled 

content used across  

packaging portfolio

22%

25% post-consumer recycled 
content used across plastic 
packaging portfolio

2%

20% virgin plastic reduction  

across plastic packaging portfolio

1%

Packaging waste – particularly plastic waste – is a 

that meets our stringent requirements for food safety and 

growing global challenge. Our vision is a circular future 

compatibility with our brewing process. This plastic is also 

in which our packaging is recycled and repurposed to 

able to be processed in many recycling systems around North 

remain in use and out of the environment. To accelerate 

America and is in strong demand as a recycled material.

this shift, we are focused on smart design, which involves 

the absolute reduction of materials used and the ability 

The transition to recyclable pods represented the 

to recycle or compost those materials after use. We 

culmination of a multi-year effort that involved converting 

are also increasingly incorporating recycled content 

more than 100 diverse pod manufacturing lines to 

into our products and packaging to further reduce our 

accommodate the design change. Using radio-frequency 

virgin plastic footprint, and we are investing in recycling 

identification technology, we pioneered large-scale testing 

infrastructure to ensure valuable recycled materials are 

in 12 material recovery facilities (MRFs) across the U.S. and 

more readily available.

Designing for Circularity

To remove unnecessary packaging materials, we continually 

innovate packaging designs and manufacturing processes 

to optimize material use. We also incorporate materials 

that are accepted for recycling and highly valued as post-

consumer recycled (PCR) content. We work closely with the 

Association of Plastic Recyclers (APR) guidelines to design 

“APR preferred” packaging that is fully compatible with 

plastics recycling systems. By making it easier to recycle our 

products, we support creating a better stream of recycled 

materials to reuse in new products. 

At the close of 2020, 90% of our packaging was recyclable, 

an increase of three percentage points from 2019. We are 

also working to eliminate problematic and non-recyclable 

materials via substitution and fully removed polystyrene 

from packaging use as of 2020. Through execution of our 

existing packaging goals, KDP is committed to reducing its 

use of virgin plastic by 20% by 2025. We will achieve this 

absolute reduction goal via the increased use of recycled 

content, elimination of unnecessary materials, redesign of 

packaging and exploration of reuse models.

In 2020, we successfully achieved one of our longstanding 

sustainability commitments – all of the K-Cup pods we 

produce are now recyclable, as they are made of #5 

polypropylene plastic. Polypropylene is a valued material 

Canada to demonstrate that the polypropylene K-Cup pods 

could be sorted from incoming curbside materials with the 

ability to be captured by modern optical or robotic sortation 

equipment. New packaging for the polypropylene K-Cup 

includes industry-respected How2Recycle® labels that clearly 

communicate recycling instructions to consumers to drive 

recycle-right behavior, and we continue to engage with MRFs 

and communities to advance the recovery of K-Cup pods. 

To support our workplace customers in recycling higher 

volumes of K-Cup pods, we continue to offer our K-Cycle 

service. Working with recycling partners, this mail-back 

program collects bins of brewed K-Cup pods and recycles 

the pod plastic and aluminum lid. The coffee or tea and 

filter become organic compost.

The test through our Material 
Recovery Facility proved that the 
latest recycling technology is able  
to successfully capture the pods, 
which will result in significantly less 
plastic waste in the landfill.

- James F. Mazza, Jr., President & CEO, Mazza Recycling

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

12

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT
ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX

K E U R I G   D R   P E P P E R   2020  PAC K AG I N G   M I X  ( P E R C E N T )

K E U R I G   D R   P E P P E R   2020  PAC K AG I N G   M I X  ( P E R C E N T )

26

24

22

12

8

4

3 1 <1

Paper/
Cardboard

PET Bottles

Non-Refillable
Glass Bottles

Aluminum
and Steel

Polypropylene

Other

Flex
Packaging

Refillable
Glass Bottles

Polystyrene

See Data Summary   for additional packaging data.

Buying & Using Recycled Content

Designing to use less plastic, including lightweighting, 

and using recycled content are important pathways to 

reducing our use of virgin plastic. We have committed 

to achieve 30% PCR content across our packaging 

portfolio by 2025, and as of year-end 2020, our packaging 

contained 22% PCR content. With a focus on plastics 

specifically, we are targeting to achieve 25% plastic PCR 

content in packaging by 2025. 

In 2020, we implemented the transition of Core Hydration, 16 

oz. Snapple and 500 mL Aguafiel Natural to bottles made of 

100% recycled polyethylene terephthalate (rPET) plastic. This 

transition was completed by mid-year 2021 and is expected to 

eliminate approximately 47.5 million pounds of virgin plastic 
used by KDP annually.1 This effort will also produce about 
30% less greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions compared to using 

virgin plastic – the equivalent of taking 7,700 cars off the road 

annually – contributing to our climate reduction targets.Each 

rPET bottle is recyclable and features the How2Recycle® label 

for clear, standardized recycling instructions. We expect to 

transition additional products  to rPET this year.

Beyond packaging, we have also eliminated one million  

pounds of virgin plastic used in our popular Keurig K-Mini 
coffee makers.2 The K-Mini brewer in matte black is made  
with 25% PCR plastic and the K-Mini Plus brewer in matte 

black is made with 50% PCR plastic. In addition, our new 

K-Supreme Plus brewer contains at least 30% PCR content. 

Other Sustainable Packaging 

From refillable products to new bio-based and other  

material innovations, we continue to explore and diversify  

our sustainable packaging options. Deja Blue was the first 

water brand to use recyclable aluminum cans more than  

10 years ago and our Limitless sparkling water brand  

and Adrenaline Shoc energy drink are sold exclusively in 

recyclable aluminum can formats. Aluminum is lightweight, 

of high-value and recycled at a relatively high rate, helping 

to reduce waste. In addition, multi-serve formats, including 

juices, batch-brewed coffee and our fountain drinks, are  

a few ways we reduce the amount of our packaging used  

for each customer drink served.

USING ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE 

AND ROBOTICS TO INCREASE  

PCR SUPPLY 

We know demand for quality recycled plastic 

is high, yet only about 10% of plastic is 

currently recycled for use in new products 

globally. A constraint that we see on current 

plastic PCR supply for KDP products and 

packages is consistent quality of supply which 

can be addressed with better sortation. As a 

result, we’re partnering with AMP Robotics, a 

pioneer in artificial intelligence, robotics and 

infrastructure for the waste and recycling 

industry, and investing in solutions to increase 

the recovery of valuable plastics, such as 

the polypropylene we use in our K-Cup pods. 

Robots at recycling facilities can differentiate 

between different colors, shapes and materials 

at superhuman speeds. Using artificial 

intelligence, robots continue to learn about 

each item and increase their performance 

over time. This improves the sorting process, 

ensuring that similar materials are processed 

together and more efficiently. The end result 

is more supply of high-quality recycled plastic 

ready for use in new products.

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

13

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT
ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX

Investing In Recycling Infrastructure 

Every Bottle Back

COLLECTIVE ACTION FOR CIRCULARITY

Our network of partnerships across the plastics 

value chain is robust. Most recently, we joined the 

U.S. Plastics Pact and Canada Plastics Pact, which 

convene diverse public-private stakeholders to rethink 

the way we design, use and reuse plastic. We also 

became a member of the Ocean Conservancy’s Trash 

Free Seas Alliance™, which unites thought leaders 

from academia, conservation and private sectors to 

work toward solutions that will mitigate plastic waste 

entering the ocean. We also co-founded the Circular 

Plastics Taskforce, which aims to provide concrete 

solutions to the challenges currently facing the 

recycling industry in Quebec, and throughout Canada.

As KDP and other companies increase commitments  

to reduce virgin plastic and use more recycled materials,  

it will be critical for recyclers to ensure a quality supply  

of recycled plastic. That’s why we’re founding partners 

in two industry coalitions and investing in numerous 

initiatives to improve recycling infrastructure and  

inspire better recycling behaviors with consumers.

Since 2014, we’ve committed over $30 million to 

encourage the circular economy through collaborative 

projects and partnerships across North America.

Polypropylene Recycling Coalition

According to The Recycling Partnership’s 2020 State of 

Curbside Recycling report, data suggests an estimated  

1.6 billion pounds of polypropylene is available for recycling 

in the U.S. each year. However, just 60% of Americans have 

access in their community to a recycling program that 
accepts rigid polypropylene.3 To address this important 
infrastructure issue, we catalyzed improvements to 

polypropylene recovery by co-founding and becoming the 

In 2019, in concert with industry peers and leadership 

by the American Beverage Association (ABA), KDP 

cofounded the Every Bottle Back (EBB) initiative to 

ensure that our plastic bottles stay out of landfills 

and the environment, and become new bottles or 

other valuable products. Together, we’re committed to 

increasing plastic bottle recycling with a $100-million 

industry-funded investment program that will be 

triple matched with additional grant and investment 

dollars, bringing the collective resources against this 

critical need to $400 million. Funds will be invested in 

increasing and optimizing recycling access, education 

and infrastructure, to improve recovery rates and 

increase the supply of rPET for use in new beverage 

bottles. It is estimated that EBB could lead to a 20% 

increase in the amount of PET recycling over the next 
ten years.4 At the time of this report, the initiative had 
announced seven community grants to improve PET 

recycling in key states.

Advocating to Modernize Recycling Infrastructure

largest funder of The Recycling Partnership’s Polypropylene 

In order for a circular economy to truly succeed in 

Recycling Coalition (The Polypropylene Coalition). The 

the U.S., there must be leadership at all levels of 

Polypropylene Coalition is a collaborative of organizations 

government to modernize and standardize recycling. 

dedicated to increasing the quantity and quality of 

polypropylene plastic recycling in the U.S.

Inadequate investment, tight municipal budgets and a 

patchwork of regulation across more than 20,000 local 

jurisdictions is preventing economies of scale in our 

Since its launch in 2020, The Polypropylene Coalition 

recycling systems and confusing consumers throughout 

has made seven grants to MRFs across the country that 

the country. We are supportive of smart policy 

face significant challenges in their ability to effectively 

sort and recycle polypropylene. The grants made to-date 

will allow an additional 7.2 million more people to recycle 

polypropylene, along with other household plastics, at the 

solutions that aim to find efficient and equitable ways 

to increase material recovery and reduce the economic 

and environmental costs of disposal. Working with 

groups such as The Recycling Partnership’s Circular 

curb, increasing the supply of recycled polypropylene for 

Economy Accelerator, we are actively exploring various 

use in new products, such as packaging, automotive parts 

recycling policy models, including options like extended 

and household goods.

producer responsibility.

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

14

How2RecycleOVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT
ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX

Resource Use  
& Conservation

2025   G OA L

P R O G R E SS

Send zero waste to landfill 

across our operations

92%

Energy-efficient cooling at our Allentown, PA facility.

Building a Zero Waste Culture

Sustainably Built Facilities

By reducing, reusing and recycling our waste in creative 

Our new K-Cup pod manufacturing site in 

ways, we are committed to zero waste from our 

Spartanburg, South Carolina is the largest industrial 

manufacturing facilities sent to landfills by 2025. Even  

manufacturing facility certified under the LEEDv4 

with the challenges presented by the COVID-19 pandemic 

BD+C rating system in North America. The site 

that temporarily closed one waste partner with whom we 

includes a separation room that moves all waste 

work, we rebounded and achieved zero waste to landfill 

from production to be recycled, reused, repurposed 

in our hot beverage manufacturing network in 2020 

or converted to energy. In addition, our new high-

for the second consecutive year. Our solutions to waste 

speed cold beverage production facility in Allentown, 

management included composting coffee grounds and 

Pennsylvania, incorporates sustainability focused 

recycling burlap coffee bean bags and filter paper scrap, 

design, including a central room with magnetic bearing 

which can be converted into insulation and pet bedding. 

chillers that provide cooling for  

We continue to optimize our waste reduction strategies 

air-conditioning as well as chilled water for production 

in collaboration with our procurement team, including 

processes, a highly energy-efficient approach. This 

conducting site surveys, streamlining data collection and 

assessing new items not previously considered. Across both 

our hot and cold beverage production sites, we kept 92% of 

site was recently named the 2021 Plant of the Year by 
Food Engineering magazine. Lastly, our new Frisco, 
Texas co-headquarters is targeting a high-level LEED 

our total waste out of landfills and we’re on track to meet 

certification for Commercial Interiors, with plans to 

our 2025 goal of zero waste to landfill. 

source 100% of its electricity from renewable sources  

and integrate recycled material into furniture and 

surfaces throughout the building. 

Closing the Loop on  
Manufacturing Waste 

In collaboration with our local recycling partner, we 

launched a new pilot project in 2020 to close the loop 

on scrap K-Cup pods from our manufacturing site in 

Montreal, Canada. All components are currently being 

dismantled and efficiently directed for future reuse. The 

polypropylene plastic pod is recycled on site with plans to 

reintroduce it into our own manufacturing processes soon. 

This approach is expected to reduce GHG emissions from 

waste incineration, increase supply of recycled plastic and 

improve our waste management practices.

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

15

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT
ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX

Water Efficiency  
& Stewardship

2025   G OA L S

P R O G R E SS

Partner with our highest water-risk 

operating communities to replenish 

100% of water used for our beverages 

in those communities

79%

20% improvement in  

water use efficiency

7%

Managing Water in Our Operations  
and Supply Chain 

Within our operations, KDP’s water management 

practices are supported by a cross-functional water 

optimization team. We focus on increasing site water 

tracking and metering to help us better measure and 

manage water use, and the team supports continuous 

improvement activities.

During 2020, we continued to improve the efficiency of  

our water use and required 1.90 liters of water per liter  

of final product, a 7% improvement in our water use  

ratio from our baseline. Some of our bottling plants in  

our highest water-risk sites, including two in Mexico and 

one in California, achieved water use ratios well below 

1.60 for the year. Our goal is to improve our water use 

efficiency by 20% by 2025.

KDP is partnering with stakeholders in the communities 

of our highest water-risk operations with the goal to 

WATER USE RATIO

L I T E R S   O F  WAT E R   R E QU I R E D  TO   
M A K E   O N E   L I T E R   O F   P R O D U C T

1.99

1.96

1.90

2018

2019

2020

See Data Summary   for additional water data.

Strengthening Our Approach  
to Understanding Water Risks 

Water is a precious natural resource that is essential to 

total 2025 projected volume of water used in products at 

leveraging expanded tools including the World Resources 

our business. As water is the primary ingredient in most 

these sites and the volume of water used to brew coffee 

Institute’s Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas, World Wildlife Fund’s 

of our beverages, we have a particular responsibility to 

with our pods. We assess these sites in the context of 

Water Risk Filter, key crop databases and individual KDP 

be good stewards of water use in our operations, our 

the surrounding watershed, local water issues and local 

manufacturing site surveys. Our assessment included all of 

replenish 100% of the water used for our beverages 

In 2020, we conducted an updated water risk assessment 

produced at those sites by 2025. This goal is based on the 

of our operating sites and agricultural supply chain, 

communities and throughout our supply chain. Our water 

stakeholder perspectives. 

stewardship goals are focused on safeguarding water 

resources and building healthy communities resilient to 

climate change. Our holistic water approach includes 
a corporate Water Policy  , governance, measurable 
targets and engagement in our value chain. We’ve also 

strengthened our risk assessment approach and enhanced 

our transparency, while continuing to report to CDP Water. 

Achieved an A- CDP water disclosure score, 
indicating we’re leading on corporate 
action and transparency on water risk

our production facilities and 11 priority raw material inputs, 

including agricultural commodities, such as coffee and 

sweeteners, as well as some packaging.

We are partnering with The Nature Conservancy 

(TNC) to ensure our efforts in these communities are 

comprehensive, grounded in scientific understanding 

Findings from the assessment confirmed our highest 

and locally relevant. Projects generally result in water 

water stress operating locations continue to be in 

benefits that last in perpetuity or for many years, as 

California, Texas and Mexico, with threats including 

long as conservation efforts in watersheds are sustained 

drought and floods. Overall, water quantity risks were 

over time. As of the end of 2020, we have replenished 

low for all currently traced priority raw materials. We will 

79% of the water used to make our beverages in our 

continue to conduct annual water risk assessments and 

highest water-risk manufacturing locations through 

projects that enhance watersheds, protect habitats  

and conserve water.

will use this data to inform and adapt our water strategy 
and stewardship. See our CDP Water responses   for more 
information on our water risk methodology.

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

16

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT
ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX

2020 WATER STEWARDSHIP PROJECTS

Texas

In the Trinity River watershed, TNC executed a water 

lease agreement for 444 million liters to help restore 

environmental flows during critical drought periods. 

These flows benefit not only fish and wildlife habitat, 

but, ultimately, all users downstream. Our ongoing 

support will scale and build capacity for similar 

transactions elsewhere in the state.

Jalisco, Mexico

We are part of a first-of-its kind industry collaboration 

to address shared water challenges in the Municipality 

of Tlajomulco de Zúñiga. The project involves restoring 

riparian land important to the region’s water quality 

and quantity through native vegetation planting and 

water infrastructure improvements.

Arizona, Nevada & California

We joined 10 businesses and philanthropic entities to 

increase water supply reliability through a project with 

the Colorado River Indian Tribes. This project supports 

conservation efforts that directly shore up declining water 

levels in Lake Mead, while enhancing water security.

Jalisco, Mexico

NEW COMMITMENT TO WATER 

STEWARDSHIP & REGENERATIVE 

AGRICULTURE

The largest portion of our water footprint, 

approximately 96%, comes from indirect 

water use, consumed when growing 

agricultural raw materials (see our 
2019 Corporate Responsibility report   
for more details). Our new regenerative 

agriculture and conservation goal supports 

our efforts to protect water resources in 

the supply chain. For more information, 
visit the Supply Chain   section). 

Collective Action for Water Security

We conduct on-the-ground conservation projects by 

working with various groups who share a vested interest in 

safeguarding water resources. For example, our partnership 

with Blue Harvest in Central America helps us to protect 

and restore water sources on and around coffee farms, 

while strengthening local water resource management. 

In 2020, we embarked on three new water stewardship 

initiatives that will contribute to our replenishment goal 

and help address water security in Texas, Mexico and the 

Colorado River basin. We have also joined the California 

Water Action Collaborative, a network of organizations 

that develop impactful conservation and restoration 

solutions to improve water security in California, and the 

Texas Water Action Collaborative, a coalition of industry, 

nonprofit and governmental organizations formed to 

benefit the Trinity River watershed.

As endorsers of the CEO Water Mandate, a UN Global 

Compact initiative, we regularly report against our water 

stewardship progress, projects and risks.

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

17

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT
ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX

Climate, Emissions 
& Energy

2025   G OA L

P R O G R E SS

100% of electricity 

used in operations from 

renewable sources

50%

2030  G OA L S

P R O G R E SS

30% reduction in  

Scope 1 & 2 emissions 

7%

15% reduction in Scope 3 

emissions in select categories 

-23%

202 4   G OA L

P R O G R E SS

Engage bottlers and select 
suppliers representing 50% 
of Scope 3 emissions to set 
a science-based target

38%

Achieved an A- CDP climate 
disclosure score, indicating we’re 
leading on corporate action and 
transparency on climate change

Climate change presents risks to our environment and our 

value chain—from the farmers who grow our ingredients, to 

our employees who make and deliver our products, to our 

consumers who drink our beverages. Our climate strategy 

is guided by our policies and governance processes to 

ensure sustainability-related risks are evaluated regularly. 

KDP uses Science-Based Targets (SBT) that are aimed at 

reducing GHG emissions across our value chain. Approved 
by the Science Based Targets initiative   (SBTi), these 
targets are in line with the reductions that are required to 

meet the Paris Agreement on the climate change goal of 

keeping global warming to well below 2 degrees Celsius. 

Throughout this report, and in our annual CDP Climate 

disclosure, we include material that responds to the Task 

Force on Climate related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 

recommendations and provide a dedicated TCFD index  
in the Reporting Framework Indices  .

SCOPE 1 & 2 CARBON FOOTPRINT

M I L L I O N  M TCO 2e

2018

2019

2020

SCOPE 1

SCOPE 2

See Data Summary 

 for additional  

GHG & energy data.

Addressing Climate Change Across  
Our Value Chain 

our Keurig brewers by designing more of them with  

more efficient flow-through heaters that consume up  

Our climate goals provide a clear path for KDP to reduce 

to an estimated 70% less energy compared to earlier  

our share of GHG, and we are taking actions across our 

Keurig brewer models that use hot water tanks. Lastly,  

value chain. Beginning at source, we are expanding into new 

we are increasing our use of PCR content in our  

areas for impact by supporting regenerative agriculture 

products, which reduces carbon emissions by 30%  

for our top climate-sensitive crops, which helps to draw 

compared to virgin plastic production.

carbon out of the atmosphere and back into soil. For some 

of our production facilities, we are sourcing our renewable 

electricity through the local utilities. For example, our 

new Ireland beverage concentrate manufacturing site is 

powered with 100% wind energy. 

Our scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions decreased 6.8%  

in 2020, compared to our 2018 baseline, but increased 

from 2019 due primarily to the addition of new 

distribution centers, including our new Allentown facility. 

Our emissions were also impacted due to the robust 

Within our distribution network, we are continually looking 

demand for our products during the pandemic, which 

for ways to improve our fleet’s fuel use, including by replacing 

drove higher production and distribution volumes 

older vehicles with more fuel-efficient models. We are also 

than the year prior. This robust demand drove a 23% 

trialing new aerodynamic devices to smooth airflow over our 

increase in our scope 3 emissions, primarily due to 

trucks at highway speeds, allowing them to burn less fuel, 

higher emissions from packaging and the energy used 

and piloting on-the-go tire inflation devices to improve the 

to operate our brewers. We will continue to identify and 

miles per gallon needed to deliver to our customers. Beyond 

target areas in which we can reduce our impact to help 

operations, we are enhancing the energy efficiency of  

drive the transition to a low-carbon economy. 

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

18

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT
ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX

Partnering to Support Our Suppliers 

More than 95% of GHG emissions related to our 

business occur outside of KDP’s direct operations,  

and our upstream supply chain emissions are about  

14 times greater than in our direct operations. In order 

to meet our own 2030 science-based carbon reduction 

goals, we are taking action across our supply chain 

to ensure suppliers and bottlers representing 50% 

of our Scope 3 emissions will have their own science-
based targets5 and, in 2020, we reached 38%. We’re 
partnering with World Wildlife Fund (WWF) and CDP 

to advance this supplier engagement approach. In 

collaboration with our procurement team, WWF and 

CDP will deliver training and resources to help our 

suppliers set science-based targets and navigate the 

transition to a low-carbon future. We also remain 

members of the EPA SmartWay program, focused on 

documenting and improving transport emissions.

Our CDP Climate response 
earned us a spot on the 
Supplier Engagement 
Leaderboard   , reserved  
for the top 7% of 
companies assessed for 
supplier engagement on  
climate change

TOTAL SCOPE 1, 2 AND 3 EMISSIONS

289,755

93,280

Scope 3 emissions 

account for the 

majority of our  

2020 GHG footprint 
(Million MTCO2e)

8,455,045

SCOPE 1
Emissions from  

KDP-owned sources

SCOPE 2

Emissions from the 

energy we purchase

SCOPE 3

Emissions from 

activities outside our 

direct control

See Data Summary  for additional GHG emissions & energy data.

ESTIMATED SHARE OF CARBON EMISSIONS THROUGHOUT OUR VALUE CHAIN

69% 5% 17%

8%

1%

SOURCING

PRODUCTION

DISTRIBUTION

USE & CONSUMPTION

POST-CONSUMER

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

19

SUPPLY CHAIN
Building Resilient and  
Sustainable Supply Chains

We use our buying power for good, pursuing responsible 

sourcing across our global supply chain to ensure the quality 

and integrity of our products. KDP works with suppliers and 

a range of innovative partners to drive positive impact in a 

number of critical areas, including natural resource protection, 

ecosystem resilience, human rights, worker well-being and 

farmer profitability. These interconnected environmental and 

social issues require holistic solutions, and KDP is committed to 

developing them to ensure a thriving future for the people and 

communities across our supply chain.

I N  T H I S   S E C T I O N

Responsible Sourcing  

Improving Livelihoods  

Restoring Nature  

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN
SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX

Responsible 
Sourcing

opportunities for supply chain investments to build farmer, 

worker and community resilience. With the achievement of 

our 100% responsibly sourced coffee commitment, we now 

have traceability to farmer group level for the majority of 

our purchases. This traceability is provided by our third-party 

sustainable sourcing programs and, where gaps in their 

tracking systems arise, we work with the programs and our 

2020   G OA L S

P R O G R E SS

upstream suppliers to close them. For agricultural ingredients 

D
E
V
E
H
C
A

I

S
S
E
R
G
O
R
P

100% responsibly 

sourced coffee

100% responsibly  

sourced brewers

N EW G OA L

100%

86%

beyond coffee, different supply chains result in different 

levels of traceability. We have achieved traceability from our 

factory back to the individual farm for the majority of our 

fresh apples supply, while our visibility into our corn-derived 

sweetener supply chain stops at the regional level within key 

sourcing countries. 

Agricultural Ingredients

At KDP, responsibly sourced means that we work with our 

Responsibly source our brewers and 100% of our priority inputs 

supply chain to ensure that fundamental human rights and 

We engage our suppliers, farmers and business partners 

to ensure sustainable practices are used across our supply 

environmental protections are in place. To date, we have 

achieved this by purchasing inputs that are certified or verified 

to a third-party sustainable sourcing program, aligned with our 
KDP Supplier Code of Conduct (see Governance   section).

chain. Our previous goal of responsibly sourcing 100% of 

At the end of 2020, for coffee, our accepted third-party  

our coffee and brewers by 2020 has been extended to 

partner programs were Fairtrade International, Fair Trade 

incorporate all of our top priority crops, including coffee, 

USA, Rainforest Alliance and Utz. Beginning in 2021, we added 

cocoa, corn and apples, as well as other priority inputs, 

4C, OLAM AtSource Entry Verified and Great Lakes Coffee 

including packaging raw materials. In addition, we remain 

MaxTRACE. These programs were added following evaluation 

committed to responsibly sourcing our Keurig brewers.  

against a comprehensive set of criteria. The development of 

We will achieve our commitments by continuing to partner 

these criteria included independent review by Conservation 

with industry associations, governments, NGOs and other 

International and WWF. All of our accepted programs lay out 

third-party accreditation bodies to help us make informed 

more specific requirements for our suppliers on focus areas 

purchasing decisions.

Traceability & Transparency 

relevant to the ingredient in question. These focus areas 

include labor risks, employee health and safety, biodiversity, 

GMOs, agrochemical use and protecting ecosystems. Through 

remediation and continuous improvement requirements,  

Achieving this ambitious target 
of 100% responsibly sourced 
coffee means that all of the 
coffee sourced around the world 
for Keurig Dr Pepper and its 
business partners puts the well-
being of forests, farmers and 
nature at the forefront. KDP’s 
leadership in this most important 
decade will spur others in the 
sector to set bold targets aligned 
with the Sustainable Coffee 
Challenge’s goal to make coffee 
the world’s first sustainable 
agricultural product.

–Bambi Semroc, SVP, Center for Sustainable Lands  

Traceability improves our ability to understand and 

these programs also help us to monitor risk and address  

& Waters, Conservation International

manage social and environmental risk, secure long-

social and environmental issues at the farm level within  

term supplies of high-quality raw materials and identify 

coffee-producing countries. 

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

21

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN
SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX

As part of our responsibly sourced commitment, 

we pay a corresponding premium above the base 

commodity price for our coffee purchases. In 

addition, our purchasing practices, coupled with our 

farmer support programs, are designed to ensure 

coffee remains a viable livelihood for farmers over 

the long-term. For example, we collaborate with 

Verité and its U.S. Department of Labor-funded 

Cooperation On Fair, Free, Equitable Employment 

(COFFEE) Project to address the key risk areas of 

worker recruitment by labor brokers and piece-rate 

payment systems that may result in low wages, child 

labor and gender-based discrimination. Through one 

of our suppliers, RGC Coffee, we support the Las 

Manos del Café program in Colombia that provides 

alternative income opportunities and enhanced 

services, such as medical and accident insurance 

and health and safety training, to farmworkers. 

These programs offer important insights and tools 

to help us and our trading partners address labor 

challenges in our shared supply chain and to improve 

farmworker well-being.

As we build on the strength of our responsibly 

sourced coffee program, we are now expanding 

our scope to include cocoa and other priority 

ingredients, such as corn, apples and apple juice 

concentrate. Priority status is determined by the 

raw material’s importance to KDP by magnitude 

of spending for the ingredient, its social and 

environmental risk profile and the opportunity for 

impact. By the end of 2021, all of our cocoa will be 

100% responsibly sourced through approved third-

party partner programs – Fairtrade International, 

Fair Trade USA, Rainforest Alliance or Utz. We are 

now also engaging suppliers and piloting projects 

for apples and corn to further accelerate our 

responsible sourcing goals. 

Brewers 

Our brewers are made of various materials and 

components from all over the world and are largely 

manufactured in China, Indonesia, Italy, Malaysia and 

Thailand. We are a member of the Responsible Business 

Alliance (RBA), the world’s largest industry coalition focused 

on corporate social responsibility in global supply chains. For 

our coffee brewers, KDP holds our suppliers accountable to 

the RBA’s Code of Conduct, which sets standards for labor, 

health and safety, environmental practices and ethics.

We audit our suppliers for compliance using the RBA’s 

Validated Assessment Program (VAP). Our brewers are 

considered responsibly sourced if they receive a minimum 

VAP assessment score of 160 out of 200 with all Priority 

Findings closed, which is considered Silver level according 

to the RBA’s VAP. We were on target to achieve 100% 
responsibly sourced brewers from our in-scope6 suppliers 
by the end of 2020, but progress was delayed due to 

COVID-related supply chain disruptions, such as factory 

shutdowns and compliance auditor travel restrictions, we 

now expect to achieve this goal in 2021.

Despite the pandemic, we made great progress in 2020, 

achieving 86% responsibly sourced brewers from our in-

scope suppliers, a significant improvement from 63% in 

2019. We achieved this improvement by diligently executing 

remediation initiatives after initial audits of our contract 

manufacturers found areas of non-compliance related to 

working hours, emergency preparedness, environment and 

health and safety. As a result of our efforts throughout 

the year, audit scores improved by an average of 72%, or 

an average score of 108 to 188, between initial and closure 

audits. We are also proud to report that in 2020, 14% of 

our in-scope suppliers reached Platinum level according to 

the RBA’s VAP program. Platinum is awarded to suppliers 

that score a 200 out of 200 on their audit and have no 

open findings. Going forward, we are committed to going 

beyond compliance-focused audits by also investing in 

worker well-being and empowerment.

BREWER RESPONSIBLE SOURCING PROGRESS

50%

63%

86%

2018

2019

2020

See Data Summary 

 for more responsible sourcing / appliances data.

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

22

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN
SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX

Improving 
Livelihoods

2020   G OA L

P R O G R E SS

D
E
V
E
H
C
A

I

1M people engaged in our supply chain 

to significantly improve their lives

1M+

N EW G OA L

Advance inclusion by addressing barriers to entry and 

prosperity in our supply chain 

Supply chain resiliency — the ability of our suppliers to 

deliver critical advisory services and catalytic financing 

aims to accelerate projects to fight inequalities  

adapt and prosper under a range of conditions — is vital 

to small farmers in vulnerable communities around 

in companies and global supply chains.

to our business. Climate change, low productivity and 

the globe. As of the end of 2020, our Partnership 

lack of access to credit and farming equipment, among 

for Sustainable Coffee (PSC) project – a three-year 

In order to achieve real impact, we continue to 

other long-term issues, can all impact our suppliers 

collaboration with Root Capital and Feed the Future, 

integrate our sustainability commitments into our 

and the goods and services they provide to KDP. In 

the U.S. Government’s global hunger and food security 

procurement practices. To inform our strategy across 

2020, we met our goal of engaging one million people 

initiative – reached 183 farmer businesses with 

both manufacturing and agricultural supply chains 

in our supply chain to significantly improve their lives. 

lending and advisory services, supporting sustainable 

moving forward, we’re working with B4IG’s Inclusive 

Since 2003, our social impact investment program has 

livelihoods for 330,000 smallholder coffee farmers 

Sourcing workstream. During 2021, we will work with a 

invested $64 million toward improving the livelihoods of 

and their families. In 2020, the PSC was selected to 

small group of peer companies to trial new tools created 

coffee farmers. In 2020, we managed a portfolio of 20 

participate in Business for Inclusive Growth (B4IG)’s 

by the workstream to support member companies to 

investment projects globally. 

Accelerator program, resulting in additional cross-sector 

develop and mature inclusive sourcing strategies. These 

For more than 20 years, KDP has worked collaboratively 

business value of similar programs in the future. KDP 

whom they have direct contracts, but also with indirect 

with Root Capital, a nonprofit agricultural lender, to 

is an inaugural member of B4IG, a global coalition that 

suppliers further upstream in the supply chain.

collaboration and learnings to maximize the social and 

tools focus on a company’s efforts with suppliers with 

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

23

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN
SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX

COLLABORATING TO ADAPT TO NEW CHALLENGES

In 2020, coffee communities weathered new crises as they dealt with the impact of the COVID-19 

pandemic and, for some, the aftermath of natural disasters. Through our longstanding partnerships,  

we were able to mobilize humanitarian support quickly to help impacted farmers and communities.

Food & Biosecurity – In Peru, where coffee communities are particularly isolated, KDP joined with one  
of our suppliers, Sustainable Harvest, to get food and biosecurity supplies out to 26 farm co-ops, helping 

4,368 families address COVID-19 safety challenges and food insecurity. 

Direct Hurricane Relief – We provided relief funding to organizations delivering direct emergency 
assistance to suppliers, farmers and their communities when Central America was hit by back-to-back 

hurricanes in the span of two weeks in late 2020. 

Pandemic-Related Business Support – Along with Root Capital, we launched the Partnership for 
Sustainable Supply Chains (PSSC) in 2020 to help farmers withstand the financial impacts of the 

pandemic and build long-term resiliency. In collaboration with Feed the Future and Ezrah Charitable Trust, 

the PSSC is providing financial support and advisory services to farmer businesses in 12 countries across 

Africa, Latin America and Indonesia. KDP is funding the project’s “COVID-19 Resilience Grants” that help 

co-ops address a range of short-term recovery needs, such as purchasing personal protective equipment, 

revamping space for social distancing and developing health and safety resources to keep workers safe. 

Longer-term recovery efforts include subsidizing income during months of uncertainty, creating social 

emergency funds and supporting farming families facing food insecurity.

In addition, we will continue to deepen our understanding 

of how supply chains can deliver improved and sustained 

economic returns for farmers. We’ll do this by working 

with our partners to establish and improve economic 

transparency along the supply chain, for example by 

pushing for improvements within our approved coffee 

responsible sourcing programs. In 2021, we are also 

launching an innovative three-year pilot program designed 

to significantly improve smallholder coffee farmer income, 

testing variables such as volume commitments, preferred 

pricing and targeted social impact investments. The pilot is 

comprised of four designated farmer groups in Colombia, 

Honduras and Uganda and will generate data-driven 

insights and learnings on inclusive growth that will inform 

our future strategies and plans. This pilot, along with others 

in development for apples and brewer manufacturing,  

will lay the groundwork for KDP’s strategy to promote  

well-being and livelihoods within an inclusive value chain. 

Root Capital has partnered with KDP 
for 20 years to bring catalytic support 
to coffee cooperatives throughout the 
globe. The company’s commitment 
to their suppliers has always been at 
the forefront. During a time of climate 
crisis and a looming global pandemic, 
strengthening the livelihoods of coffee 
farming families makes them more 
resilient to these threats. We’re proud  
to be a part of this accomplishment, 
and to call KDP a true partner.

–Willy Foote, Founder & CEO, Root Capital

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

24

 
OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN
SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX

2020 Social Impact Projects

1M+ 

People engaged to 
significantly improve 
their lives since 2014 

$64M+ 

Total social impact 
investments since 2003

20 

Projects in 2020

Mexico

Guatemala

Colombia

Peru

Addressing local water 
issues and planning for 
changes in climate

Strengthening  
farmer organizations 

Improving farming 
techniques

Disaster Relief  
(including COVID-19)

Grantee and Partner Organizations

Honduras

Uganda

Nicaragua

Brazil

Indonesia

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

25

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN
SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX

Restoring Nature

N EW G OA L

Support regenerative agriculture and conservation on 

250K acres of land by 2030

Regenerative agriculture is a key driver for protecting, 

restoring and managing natural resources to support 

the resilience of our supply chain. Regenerative practices 

focused on soil health also contribute to improved  
water quality and quantity, biodiversity and farmer 
resilience, while also reducing carbon impacts. In early 2021, 

we announced a new commitment to support regenerative 

agriculture and conservation on 250,000 acres of land by 

2030, representing 50% of the land used to grow KDP’s top 

climate-sensitive crops, including coffee, corn and apples. 

We’re currently assessing measurement frameworks and 

engaging partners to maximize our impact across our 

priority raw materials. For example, we know that training 

and incentives for implementing regenerative practices like 

cover cropping will be an important way to support corn 

farmers to transition their acreage to more sustainable 

farming. Similarly, we see potential to support apple 

farmers to boost productivity with new technologies, like 

climate-adapted tree varieties and improved planting 

systems. We are also exploring new sources of data, 

such as cost of production and weather monitoring, that 

can better equip farmers to make strategic decisions 

about their farms. Our membership in the Sustainable 

Agriculture Initiative Platform and their expanding work  

on regenerative agriculture will help guide our next steps. 

Our commitment to regenerative agriculture builds on 

our ongoing work focused on climate- and water-smart 

agriculture projects with coffee growing communities, 

including our longstanding investment with Catholic  

Relief Services’ Blue Harvest program in Central America. 

Since 2014, Blue Harvest has reached over 4,500 farmers, 

helping them adopt regenerative practices to build soil 

health, reduce synthetic inputs and restore nature. The 

program also supports conservation and restoration 

activities in protected areas, such as planting forest trees. 

As a result of the Blue Harvest program, over 131 million 

COLLABORATING TO SAFEGUARD  

COFFEE’S FUTURE

To help farmers better adapt to the growing 

stressors of climate change and declining 

productivity, World Coffee Research (WCR) 

is conducting research and accelerating new 

approaches to grow, protect and enhance supplies 

of quality coffee. KDP is a co-founder and long-

term supporter of WCR and recently committed 

$1 million over the next four years in funding to 

make coffee farming more profitable and resilient 

to climate change. The grant supports developing 

and testing future coffee tree varieties on a 

global scale for field performance and quality. It 

will also support improving the seed and nursery 

infrastructure to get healthy, new trees into the 

hands of farmers that need them. 

Our new regenerative agriculture 
goal is a positive step forward 
on our journey to ensure a long-
term, sustainable supply of high-
quality crops like coffee, apples 
and corn, by improving soil health 
for the farmers who supply us.

– Monique Oxender, Chief Sustainability Officer,  

liters of water have been saved through infrastructure 

Keurig Dr Pepper

upgrades and new water stewardship practices, improving 

the water supply for over 145,000 people.

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

26

HEALTH &  
WELL-BEING
Focusing on Positive Hydration

At KDP, we aim to be a trusted partner on the well-being journey 

of our consumers. We know people are looking for more than great 

taste from their beverages. Along with offering choices that reduce 

calories or sugar, we are also committed to delivering products 

containing beneficial nutrients. That’s why we are expanding the way 

we think about health and well-being with a new focus on “positive 

hydration.” Our partnerships with leading organizations support 

our efforts to accelerate our innovation and transparency, while we 

empower consumers to make informed choices. We also do our part 

by responsibly marketing and advertising our products, as well as 

maintaining strict quality and food safety standards and systems  

to ensure we deliver high-quality products for consumers.

I N  T H I S   S E C T I O N

Consumer Health & Well-being  

Responsible Marketing & Labeling  

Product Quality & Food Safety  

 
OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING
HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX

Consumer Health 
& Well-being

N EW  G OA L

Provide positive hydration in 60% of KDP products by 2025

We provide options that meet different consumer needs  

at any time of day, from a pick-me-up in the morning,  

to hydration during a workout, to a favorite beverage  

with a meal or snack or a treat at the end of a long day.  

We balance our offerings of treat occasions with  

low-calorie, reduced-sugar beverages, as well as  

choices that provide functional attributes. 

Positive Hydration 

Over the past year, we’ve spent time exploring the 

future of well-being, engaging a diverse mix of external, 

credentialed experts in public health, nutrition, fitness, 

mindfulness and academia to help shape our efforts. 

OUR POSITIVE  

HYDRATION DEFINITION

A product that provides a serving of fruits or 
vegetables OR is below 40 calories per serving8 
with a functional attribute9 (e.g., hydration 
with water10; antioxidants to help fight 
cellular damage from free radicals; immune 

support with vitamins A, C, E and zinc; healthy 

digestive system support with dietary fiber 

and relaxation with L-theanine) or at least 
10% Daily Value of a nutrient to encourage11 
(protein, fiber, vitamin A, vitamin C, calcium, 

iron, vitamin D or potassium). 

our portfolio of choices in the coming years. Examples of 

existing positive hydration products include non-caloric 

coffees and teas, 100% fruit juice and sauces with no sugar 

added, low calorie energy and soft drinks and sparkling, still 

and functional waters. Our product offerings that do not 

meet our definition of positive hydration include full-calorie 

carbonated soft drinks for treat occasions and sweetened 

varieties of juices, coffee, cocoa and energy drinks.

Through collaboration, we’ve identified “positive hydration” 

We are collaborating with Partnership for a Healthier 

as aligning with our objectives to expand product offerings 

America (PHA) on our positive hydration goal. PHA is 

that deliver nutritional and functional benefits, in addition 

a national nonprofit working to transform the food 

to reduced sugar and calories. 

We have committed that by 2025, 60% of our portfolio 
will provide positive hydration.7 This new goal expands 
on our commitment to reduce beverage calories in 

collaboration with the Balance Calories Initiative (BCI), a 

nationwide effort by leaders in the beverage industry who 

have pledged to help fight obesity by reducing beverage 

calories consumed. In 2020, 54% of KDP’s portfolio 

provided positive hydration, and we are excited to grow 

landscape in pursuit of health equity in the United States. 

Through our multi-year partnership, PHA will provide 

annual validation of the progress we are making towards 

our positive hydration goal, as well as expertise in the 

health and well-being space.

By creating transparency 
around their marketing 
practices and committing 
to increase the number of 
better-for-you products in their 
portfolio, Keurig Dr Pepper 
is joining the movement to 
transform the food landscape 
in pursuit of health equity.

– Nancy E. Roman, President and CEO  
of Partnership for a Healthier America

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

28

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING
HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX

Our marketing, research and development teams 

continue to develop and support new product 

innovations that prioritize nutrients and consider the 

benefits of functional ingredients to support positive 

hydration. We’re also expanding the choices we offer to 

consumers to complement a balanced lifestyle, including 

new product offerings that are reduced in sugar or use 

sugar alternatives without compromising on taste. In 

addition, we know portion control is key to balance, so 

we offer smaller portion sizes, like our full calorie treat 

beverages in mini cans, to give people more control over 

their calorie consumption. 

Partnering to Increase Access  

We support consumer choice by ensuring consumers 

have access to healthful beverage options. We prioritize 

accessible nutrition by expanding distribution of our  

well-being offerings to new and varied markets to reach  

a diverse mix of consumers.  

Balance Calories Initiative 

We continue to be active partners with the ABA and the 

Alliance for a Healthier Generation on the BCI. With a goal to 

reduce beverage calories consumed per person nationally by 

20% by 2025, BCI is the single-largest voluntary effort by an 

industry to help fight obesity. In addition, the BCI is tracking 

calorie reduction efforts in five communities in the U.S. where 

health disparities have led to higher obesity rates compared 

to the national average and where reducing beverage 

calories is expected to be the most challenging.

In 2019, independent evaluation of the BCI data found that 

the industry helped to drive the largest, single-year reduction 

in beverage calorie consumption, leading to the third 

The most recent evaluation also concluded that beverage 

consecutive year of declines since the launch of the initiative.  

calories per person fell in all five selected communities 

Consumption of calories and sugar from beverages fell by 

of Eastern Los Angeles, Little Rock, Bronx-Brooklyn, 

2.4% in 2019, even as sales volumes grew. This was due in 

Montgomery-Lowndes and the Mississippi Delta. The  

large part to the introduction of new, low- and no-calorie 

2019 report shows low- and no-calorie beverages have 

offerings and, more recently, smaller portion-size offerings, 

grown in these communities, while full calorie beverages 

all supported by a significant increase in industry marketing 

spend on these products.

have declined, driving an 8-13% reduction in calories per 
8-ounce serving from the baseline.12 Results from 2020 will 
be published later this year.

Dr Pepper Zero Sugar is made 

with a new blend of sweeteners 

that delivers the delicious taste 

of Dr Pepper with zero sugar and 

zero calories. 

BETTER-FOR-YOU OFFERINGS

We are innovating and expanding hot and cold beverage 

offerings to meet evolving needs and well-being goals. 

Recent innovations, including some that meet our 

definition of positive hydration, include:

Limitless Relax is sparkling water with 

L-Theanine to support relaxation and 

Limitless Refresh is lightly caffeinated 

with caffeine sourced from green coffee 

beans. Both are formulated to contain 

zero sugar, sodium and calories. 

Mott’s Mighty products include no-sugar-

Bai® Boost, containing as much 

Green Mountain Coffee Roasters Brew 

added applesauce containing a good source 

caffeine as a cup of coffee, is made 

Over Ice K-Cup pods are a specially 

of fiber and juice drinks fortified with 

vitamins A, C & E, formulated to contain 

50% less sugar than 100% apple juice. 

with plant-based energy from tea 

crafted premium roast coffee blend 

extract and has only 10 calories. 

with an extra boost of 100% Arabica 

coffee, offering a refreshing, full-

flavored iced coffee.

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

29

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING
HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX

Responsible 
Marketing & 
Labeling

We are committed to transparency in our product 

packaging, labeling and responsible marketing practices. 

Our employees and media agencies are trained annually on 

our responsible marketing and advertising policies and are 

required to strictly adhere to these policies on our behalf.

We fully acknowledge the need to promote health  

and well-being and believe in harnessing the power  

of product communications to support consumers’  

well-being goals and drive healthful choices. In 2020,  

32% of our overall marketing budget focused on our 

positive hydration beverages.

Advertising Policies

We respond to evolving societal concerns and partner with 

other leading companies for collective action to support 

responsible and truthful marketing. We do not advertise 

our products to children under 12, unless the products meet 

the nutritional criteria outlined by the Children’s Food 

and Beverage Advertising Initiative (CFBAI). As members 

of CFBAI in the U.S., KDP monitors and publicly reports 
compliance with our pledge   annually. In 2020, KDP did  
not target any product advertising to children under the  

age of 12, regardless of the product’s nutrition profile. 

We strive to advertise in environments that are aligned 

with our values and appropriate for our products. We take 

precautions across all marketing and communications 

channels to ensure our advertisements do not appear on 

Product Labeling 

Consumer Education & Transparency

To empower consumers to make informed choices, we  

are committed to providing them with transparent 

nutrition information about our beverages. Going beyond 

regulatory requirements, as part of the ABA’s industry-
wide Clear on Calories    efforts, our beverage containers 
include voluntary product transparency with front-of-pack 

We continue to expand our product facts websites in 
the U.S.   and Canada   to increase transparency to 
consumers beyond information found on the label. This 

includes providing information such as ingredient and 

nutrient descriptions and comparisons to other KDP 

cold beverage products. Future enhancements underway 

calorie labeling. Through this initiative, consumers have 

to these sites will meet consumers evolving needs for 

access to prominent, consistent and user-friendly caloric 

information, as well as include our hot beverage portfolio.

or near inappropriate content. Our media buying agencies 

information on the beverages they consume. In addition, 

know our values and are required to strictly adhere to 

we voluntarily disclose added caffeine content on labels  

these policies on our behalf.

of our cold products.

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

30

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING
HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX

Product Quality  
& Food Safety

Product quality and safety are top priorities for KDP,  

which is why these principles are embedded into every  

step of the product lifecycle for every beverage and  

brewer we manufacture and market.

At KDP, food safety and quality starts with our robust 

corporate Food Safety & Quality Management System 

that incorporates standards of performance and 

compliance with all applicable regulations and third-

party food safety certification standards. This quality 

management system also includes external and internal 

auditing to ensure compliance and effectiveness. All KDP 

manufacturing sites meet or exceed the requirements 

of the Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI), an industry-

recognized coalition that oversees food safety standards.

We adhere to strict quality testing procedures throughout 

our production processes to ensure our products meet or 

exceed all legal requirements as well as our own rigorous 
quality standards. KDP’s Chemicals Management Policy 
includes our approach to assessing and mitigating risks 

associated with identified chemicals. Furthermore, our 

ingredient risk program routinely assesses suppliers  

and ingredients to ensure we are using only safe,  

high-quality ingredients.

We are actively engaged in a number of external industry 

organizations, including the American Society for Quality, 

Food Allergy Research and Resource Program and the 

International Society of Beverage Technologists, to ensure 

continued benchmarking against industry best practices.

Supplier Quality

Suppliers of packaging and ingredients to KDP must 

meet a rigorous set of requirements to supply materials 

to our manufacturing sites and co-packer operations. 

We are equally committed to appliance safety. Each 

Our supplier quality guidelines detail the end-to-end 

Keurig brewer model is independently certified by a third-

requirements of supplying raw materials and packaging 

Training & Review 

KDP requires 100% of our manufacturing facility 

employees to undergo food safety and quality training 

annually. We developed several key training platforms 

with respected food safety and quality partners to ensure 

our team members have the necessary competencies to 

drive our Food Safety & Quality Management System 

requirements and sustain our overall performance in food 

safety. We have robust compliance programs and review 

systems in place, led by a team representing functions 

including Food Safety, Quality Assurance and Regulatory 

Affairs. We review all of our quality policies annually and 

update them in accordance with the latest industry  

party, industry-recognized lab that follows standards 

to KDP, including mandatory documented standards and 

tailored to the environment in which the appliance will be 

third-party audits. The result of these stringent protocols 

best practices.

used, including commercial use. Returned Keurig brewers 

is that the majority of our suppliers are GFSI certified. 

are analyzed by our technicians to identify failures that 

Additionally, we have an ongoing program to audit key 

may have occurred, allowing us to improve design, quality 

suppliers every year on a risk-based rotation schedule.

and construction.

KDP Montreal earned the  
McDonald’s Canada Food Safety  
and Quality Award for the 2020  
national launch of McCafé retail coffee

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

31

PEOPLE &  
COMMUNITIES
Empowering Our Team,  
Providing For Our Communities

We strive to be an employer of choice – a place where our employees 

feel inspired, valued and proud to be part of KDP. We are committed 

to providing workplaces that are safe and offer opportunities for 

our people to develop both professionally and personally. We foster 

a culture that is growth focused, collaborative, accountable and 

inclusive. We also enrich the communities in which we operate, by 

investing in meaningful social impact programs and providing our 

employees with opportunities to give back.  

I N  T H I S   S E C T I O N

Employee Health & Safety  

Employee Engagement & Development  

Diversity & Inclusion  

Community Engagement  

  
OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES
PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX

6-POINT EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND SAFETY PROGRAM

6

1

Local Case
Management

New Sanitation
Standards

5

2

Team / Work
Segmentation

6-Point Employee
Safety Program

Employee
Screening

!

Employee Site
Separation

4

Increased
Employee 
Hygiene

3

Employee Health 
& Safety 

Ensuring the health, safety and well-being of our 

employees is a top priority at KDP. We provide our 

employees with the training, tools and resources they need 

to safeguard their health and that of their families, and 

we empower them to put safety first. Our Environmental, 

Health and Safety (EHS) Management System ensures 

that our facilities implement health and safety processes 

to improve employee safety, reduce workplace risks and 

drive for continuous improvement.  

Advancing a Culture of Safety  
Across Our Operations

At the onset of COVID-19 in North America, we 

implemented extraordinary precautions and a new 

framework across our facilities to prioritize employee 
safety. Our 6-Point Employee Health and Safety Program 
included new procedures, such as temperature checks 

and health screenings, extensive sanitization practices, 

required face coverings and mandated social distancing 

protocols. Employee commitment and compliance with 

the 6-Point program continues to be extremely high.

In 2020, we introduced advanced EHS programs to help 

improve how we identify, evaluate and report against 

critical areas of safety. We accelerated the roll out of a 

standardized risk assessment program to help identify 

the risk level of potential hazards and manage the 

necessary control measures or process improvements 

needed. We also launched a new database that tracks 

safety metrics across the enterprise, giving our teams 

access to fulsome data to help detect potential issues 

before they become incidents.

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

33

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES
PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX

We also invested in new technologies to help keep our 

people safe. We partnered with Workcare, a physician-

directed occupational health company, to develop a 

robust health screening process for employees and  

onsite medical support at more than 140 KDP sites –  

in some cases, 24 hours a day. Workcare also partnered 

with us to develop a mobile app to enable employee  

self-screening prior to entering a facility. If symptoms 

were identified, additional support was provided. To 

promote social distancing, we rolled out new armband 

devices at select facilities to alert the wearer to another 

person coming within six feet by momentarily lighting 

up red and vibrating. We’ve installed thermal cameras 

to monitor employees’ temperatures and built electro 

misting sanitizers in common areas. We’re also installing 

new air purification systems in many of our facilities.

Our goal is a zero incident, injury-free workplace. We 

currently maintain lost-time injury and total injury 

frequency rates well below benchmark rates for beverage 
manufacturing.13 In 2020, our Lost-Time Incident Rate 
(LTIR) was 0.19 for our manufacturing sites, a 17% 

improvement from 2019, and our Total Recordable Injuries 

Rate (TRIR) was 0.78, a 38% improvement from last year, 

despite the volume surge related to COVID-19.

Our total injury rate was 
0.78 per 100 employees in 
our production network in 
2020, significantly below 
benchmark rates for 
beverage manufacturing

Improving Distribution and  
Fleet Safety

In the U.S., our company-owned Direct Store Delivery 

(DSD) operations extend across 34 states and serve 

two-thirds of the population. Our DSD team achieved 

an 18% reduction in injury rates in 2020, despite the 

significant increase in volume from rising consumer 

demand. To continue that trend, we’ve increased our 

With the impact of COVID-19, our workplaces will be 

focus on ergonomics training, such as safe lifting and 

different going forward. We will continue to explore new 

handling, and introduced pallets within our small-

ways of working and design principles to further reduce 

format customer fleet that optimize safe and secure 

our risk and improve our safety response, developing a 

product movement during store delivery. 

culture of commitment that encourages engagement in 

safety and health by all KDP team members.

With a DSD fleet of approximately 2,300 trucks 

carrying both KDP-owned brands and partner  

brands that we distribute, driving is a core 

responsibility for many of our team members. We 

are investing in enhanced driver training programs 

and technologies to enable the regular sharing of 

best practices and safety techniques. We continually 

review electronic data from our trucks to better 

identify risks and preventive actions to help reduce 

incidents on the road.

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

34

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES
PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX

Employee 
Engagement & 
Development

Our 27,000 employees are critical to our success and a 

source of true competitive advantage. We believe that our 

investment in building a dynamic, inclusive culture and a 

rewarding employee experience is not only the right thing 

to do, but also directly linked to our ability to deliver strong 

and sustainable results. Supported by our KDP values, 

we are building a work environment that drives employee 

engagement and accelerates our business strategy.

Employee Engagement 

We conduct regular surveys of our employees so we can 

listen to and act on the unique perspectives of our team 

to make our workplace better. In 2020, we conducted our 

second employee engagement survey as ONE KDP, inviting 

all employees to share feedback on culture, engagement 

and the work environment. Our employee participation 
rose to 81%14, compared to 65% in our first survey in 2019. 
Our overall engagement score also increased, moving from 

60% in 2019 to 62% in 2020. 

These survey results provided valuable data for managers 

and their teams and formed the basis for dialogue and 

action. Through employee feedback, enhancements are 

being made in areas such as career development, benefits 

and communication. We also created tools for our leaders 

and teams to enable open, honest conversations with 

employees, while supporting their well-being. During this 

process, our team members found connection and support 

during an unprecedented year. 

LIVING OUR KDP VALUES

Our KDP values were built in 

a collaborative way to bring 

voices across our company 

together. They define how 

we work, and they are the 

cornerstone of the KDP 

culture. In 2020, we continued 

to bring our values to life 

through employee stories and 

recognition during a Values 

Celebration in August and by 

encouraging teams to discuss 

how our values translate to 

our day-to-day work and 

interactions with each other.  

TEAM FIRST
Win together. Be the kind of 
person you want on your team.

DELIVER BIG
Achieve our commitments.  
Then push beyond the expected.

THINK BOLD
Challenge the usual.  
Dare to try something new.

BE FEARLESS & FAIR
Tell the truth with courage.  
Listen and act with respect.

Career Development & Learning 

KDP takes a holistic approach to career development, 

launched KDP Fundamental Leadership Expectations, a 

encouraging team members to embrace new experiences, 

frontline leadership development program focusing on skills 

building on the knowledge and skills available from both 

and techniques to overcome challenges and drive positive 

their day-to-day accountabilities as well as participation 

results. Our 1,600 frontline leaders manage approximately 

on various project teams. We also encourage formal 

75% of our workforce and, in 2020, 90% of those leaders 

development opportunities. 

In 2020, we provided new career development opportunities 

for employees, including instructor-led courses and a 

robust library of on-demand training materials, ranging 

from technical skills to strategic thinking. In addition, we 

completed this training. The multi-day online program 

included modules on developing a leader’s mindset, creating 

a culture of feedback and leading teams through times 

of change, among others. In 2021, we plan to complete 

our KDP Fundamental Leadership Expectations program 

with frontline leaders and expand this program to include 

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

35

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES
PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX

Benefits For Our Employees 

We offer a robust package of benefits and resources, 

•  Expanded telemedicine offerings — We expanded 

including health and wellness, financial and retirement 

mental health resources via telemedicine and offered 

planning and education, among others, to support the 

telemedicine access for the first time in Canada. 

varied and diverse needs of our employees. Eligibility for 

most benefits starts on the date of hire. Key offerings  

for all eligible, non-union team members include:

•  Domestic partner eligibility

•  Increased child and eldercare assistance — For parents 
and caregivers, we expanded our existing back-up 

child and eldercare resources through our partnership 

with Bright Horizons. This also included access to a 

broader network of in-home caregivers, discounts on 

•  Paid parental leave for both mothers and fathers

learning pods, school-age tutoring services and test 

•  Free counseling sessions for employees and their  

prep services.

family members

•  Retirement savings plans with significant matching 

company contributions

•  Employee tuition reimbursement for undergraduate, 

graduate and certificate programs

•  Paid time off up to eight hours annually to volunteer  

in our communities

non-frontline leaders as part of onboarding and continued 

Our KDP wellness program provides resources to support 

development. We are committed to supporting the growth 

the physical, mental and financial health of our employees 

•  Extended paid sick time — We provided enhanced  
paid sick time to cover employees that got sick or  

had to quarantine, encouraging everyone to make  

health a priority. 

•  Essential worker pay rewards — For our frontline 
employees who worked in our manufacturing 

and distribution operations during the height of 

the pandemic, we provided temporary enhanced 

compensation and incentives, in addition to our 

extraordinary focus on health and safety protocols. 

and development of all KDP employees and continue to 

and their families. Our commitment to keep employees 

Benefits for our union team members within our 

expand and raise awareness of learning resources for both 

safe and healthy took on new meaning as we worked 

manufacturing and DSD team are covered by separate 

leaders and individual contributors. As tracked through our 

through the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition to onsite 

collective bargaining agreements. In 2020, approximately 

online learning system, KDP employees participated in more 

safety precautions for our frontline teams and select 

30% of our employees were represented by labor 

than 124,000 hours of training in 2020.

office staff that required use of our facilities, we provided 

organizations and covered by collective bargaining 

At KDP, our performance management process fosters 

alignment and accountability, drives performance-based 

rewards and creates a culture of personal and professional 

development and recognition. Our annual performance 

management cycle ensures that non-frontline employees 

set goals aligned with our business priorities, supported 

by touchpoints throughout the year, to ensure ongoing 

feedback, and our frontline team members are provided 

regular, real-time feedback and frequent touchpoints 

around performance and behaviors. 

additional support to eligible employees and their families:

agreements. These agreements generally address working 

•  Enhanced wellness programs — Throughout 2020, we 
increased our focus, education and communications 

regarding KDP’s wellness offerings, providing an 

expanded set of tools and resources with an emphasis 

on mental health. These included resources for the whole 

family to navigate the physical, mental and financial 

challenges brought on by the pandemic.

conditions, as well as wage rates and benefits, and are 

renegotiated in good faith as they expire. Throughout the 

pandemic, we worked cooperatively with the unions which 

represent our employees to ensure the employees received 

temporary financial incentives and benefit program 

enhancements given their essential worker status. 

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

36

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES
PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX

Diversity & 
Inclusion

N EW  G OA L S

Increase female representation in Director and above 

positions by 25% by 2025

We established a cross-functional D&I Leadership 
Team — led by Chairman & CEO Bob Gamgort and 
Chief Human Resources Officer Mary Beth DeNooyer 
— to help set priorities and lead meaningful dialogue 

throughout the organization. We also engaged  

external partners and experts on benchmarking  

and internal assessments. 

The result is a D&I Aspiration focused on three key pillars 

that will guide our focus and prioritize our actions: 

Diversity — We believe that our workforce should  
reflect our consumer base and the communities we  

Increase people of color representation in Director and 

serve. Our processes and actions are designed to ensure 

above positions by 25% by 2025

a level playing field for everyone to thrive.

Our Diversity & Inclusion Aspiration

Inclusion — Our leaders are accountable to create a 
culture of trust and respect in which all employees 

belong, all voices are heard and different perspectives 

are valued. All employees are expected to embrace and 

Just as each of our brands brings its own personality to 

support this culture.

our product portfolio, KDP employees bring their own 

unique backgrounds, experiences and perspectives to 

our business. KDP is embracing the richness of these  

Driving Change — We are working to ensure that every 
employee knows the part they play in this journey, 

differences to meaningfully advance our progress toward 

and we are committed to transparently communicate 

our aspiration and to inspire innovation and better 

connection to our customers, consumers and other 

updates on our progress. Individually, as a team and as 
a company — we will grow together.

stakeholders. During 2020, we accelerated our diversity & 

inclusion (D&I) journey, tackling this work with the same 

passion and rigor that we have applied to other successful 

transformation initiatives. We launched a formalized 

initiative structure with executive sponsorship, strong 

governance processes and clear goals and milestones to 

measure progress and hold ourselves accountable. 

Using our D&I Aspiration as our north star, we are  

in the process of creating a strategic roadmap of actions 

across KDP in areas such as hiring, development, training 

and engagement. Most recently, we engaged our senior 

leaders in workshops to weave our D&I Aspiration into 

our operational activities and to allow senior leaders to 

become more aware of their role in creating an inclusive 

Our approach to further define our D&I commitment 

environment. In addition, we have set initial workforce 

started with our employees, inviting them to join the 

representation goals, with a focus on increasing the 

conversation with roundtables and digital conversations. 

number of women and people of color in leadership roles.

OUR COMMITMENT TO EQUALITY

At KDP, we stand against intolerance and 

inequality, and we recognize more must be done 

to address racism in our society. Our Respectful 

Workplace and Anti-Harassment Policy is the 

foundation for our commitment to our workplace. 
See a summary here  . Additionally, as a member  
of the B4IG coalition, we are committed to business 

action to advance human rights, build inclusive 

workplaces and strengthen inclusion. Read our 
Business Pledge Against Inequalities here  .

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

37

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES
PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX

Fostering a Diverse  
and Inclusive Culture

The ERGs have been 
instrumental in bringing people 
of diverse backgrounds together 
to increase awareness of other 
cultures, tackle challenges, 
improve engagement and 
contribute to the well-being  
of their fellow employees.

–Tony Macaluso, Program Manager, Coffee

Employee Resource Groups

Supplier Diversity

In 2020, we launched eight Employee Resource 

We are committed to working with diverse businesses 

Groups (ERGs) to create space for employees to 

and driving inclusivity across our supply chain. 

build connection and community. More than 4,000 

This includes working with suppliers identified as 

employees representing all functions have joined the 

owned by minorities, women, veterans, disabled and 

EMPLOYEE DIVERSITY

GLOBAL GENDER DEMOGRAPHICS

Men

Women

Not Disclosed

18%

<1%

82%

GLOBAL 
TOTAL

DIRECTOR+

73%

1%

26%

U.S. RACIAL / ETHNICITY DEMOGRAPHICS

Asian

Black

Hispanic

Native American

Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander

Not Disclosed

Two or More Races

White

ERGs as either members or allies. Each ERG includes 

members of the LGBT community. Since our merger 

53%

79%

an executive leadership team sponsor with membership 

in July 2018, we have spent more than $600 million 

currently open to all employees in the United States 

with diverse, Tier 1, suppliers. We are expanding 

and Canada. The ERGs focus on four pillars – culture, 

the rigor of our supplier identification and sourcing 

company, career and community – to build programming 

processes, with plans to launch a formal Supplier 

for members and drive awareness and education across 

Diversity program later this year. To inform our 

the broader KDP organization.

Pay Equity

We maintain robust internal processes to review our 

pay practices in each of our local markets to ensure 

our compensation programs and practices are fair 

and equitable among all employees without regard 

to gender, race or ethnicity. We remain committed to 

continuous improvement and expansion of this work.

work, we are leveraging our membership in the B4IG 

coalition and their Inclusive Sourcing workstream, 

which aims to share best practices among peers and 

spur the development of more impactful inclusive 

sourcing programs in company supply chains.  

To learn more about this initiative, please see  
the Supply Chain  section of this report.

1%

<1%

<1%

<1%

1%

3%

3%

22%

U.S. 
TOTAL

17%

DIRECTOR+

4%

2%

5%

4%
6%

Please see Data Summary 

 for additional employee diversity data.

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

38

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES
PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX

Community 
Engagement

Our community programs allow us to make meaningful 

social impact in key areas important to our business, 

while also enriching our communities and engaging 

our employees. In 2020, we contributed to a variety of 

organizations and causes, and we provided our employees 

with opportunities to give back and amplify their 

charitable support.

Active Play for Healthier Kids  
and Communities 

Our Let’s Play program, which provides funding, equipment 

and play spaces for kids in underserved communities, was 

significantly impacted by the pandemic, as shelter-in-place 

orders forced the shuttering of playgrounds and youth 

sports events for the majority of 2020. Despite this shut 

down, which prevented us from building entirely new Let’s 

FUELING THE FRONTLINE

At the onset of the pandemic, we refocused our 

community investment approach to enable us to 

meaningfully support the unwavering commitment 

and courage of those on the frontline, particularly 
hospital workers. We created our Fueling the 
Frontline program, leveraging our resources and 
people, as well as our broad distribution network, 

to provide coffee, brewers and other beverages to 

hundreds of hospitals across the U.S. and Canada.

BY T H E   N U M B E R S :     

506 hospitals reached across 43 states  
and provinces

3,743 hospital breakrooms outfitted with 
coffee stations featuring Keurig brewers  

and K-Cup pods 

Play playgrounds, in early 2020 we awarded 35 playground 

4 million cups of coffee and other beverages 

grants and 162 sports equipment grants to other 

organizations that collectively will provide play opportunities 

to approximately 400,000 kids, upon completion of projects 

donated to the frontline, primarily healthcare 
workers, including 16,905 beverages served by 
the Keurig mobile coffeehouse to healthcare 

underway. Of the sports equipment grants awarded, 58% 

workers at seven Dallas-Fort Worth hospitals 

were allocated in support of high school girls’ sports and 

physical activity, as girls have 1.3 million fewer opportunities 
to play high school sports than boys.15

30 million video views, and more than  
712,000 engagements and 11,000 hashtags  
as part of a National Hospital Week campaign 

to recognize and share thanks to healthcare 

workers through social media

Since its inception in 2011, Let’s Play has awarded 4,725 

grants and built more than 100 play spaces, investing 
nearly $40 million across thousands of communities. 

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

39

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES
PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX

Hurricane Laura caused devastating flooding 

across the Gulf Coast, becoming one of the 

strongest hurricanes to ever make landfall in 

the state of Louisiana. Through our planning 

efforts, KDP locations in the area were able to 

track the storm and quickly resume operations 

to serve customers once it was safe to do so. 

We worked with disaster relief agencies to 

assess community needs and partnered with 

Operation Blessing to provide 2,200 cases of 

water for residents in impacted areas.

Engaging Employees for Good

Supporting More Students In Need 

Caring During Disasters 

Our second annual Engage for Good company match 
campaign raised funds for more than 650 nonprofit 

Since 2008, the Dr Pepper Tuition Giveaway Program 

Our beverages, in particular drinking water, provide 

has awarded more than $12 million in tuition assistance 

hydration and comfort to our communities in need in the 

organizations. Of those, 38% aligned with key KDP focus 

to deserving students. Recognizing the unique 

midst of natural disasters. In 2020, we donated more than 

areas of health and well-being, environment, disaster relief 

circumstances many college students were facing due 

277,000 beverages in support of 12 different disasters 

and racial and social equality. During the annual campaign, 

to COVID-19, the brand doubled its giving to $2 million 

throughout the year, including wildfires, hurricanes and 

employee donations made to nonprofits serving these four 

nationally for the 2020 college football season – its 

other incidents. Additionally, we provided $115,000 in 

key areas were matched by the Company 2:1 and others 

largest giveaway in the program’s 12-year history. 

grants to our employees through our Employee Relief 

received a 1:1 match, up to $250.

Students were encouraged to submit videos of their 

Fund. The fund was established in September 2005 as a 

Our employee volunteer program, Dollars for Doers, 

encourages employees to support their communities by 

volunteering, allowing them to earn financial grants for 

nonprofits of their choice. Employees earn grants of $100 

for every 10 hours volunteered, up to 30 hours per year. 

Grants are doubled for employees in board positions. In 

2020, we supported 75 nonprofits through grants in the 

U.S. and Canada, despite the limitations of COVID-19 on 

volunteer opportunities. 

stories and career ambitions, for an opportunity to 

501(c)(3) nonprofit to assist colleagues directly impacted 

win life-changing tuition support. Amid the pandemic, 

by Hurricane Katrina and now provides financial assistance 

Dr Pepper was able to bring back the iconic throw 

to employees and family members of KDP who experience 

competition in a new, safe format. Recorded footage  

a disaster or emergency hardship.

of the throw competition aired during the College 

Football Conference Championship games, creating  

a custom, once-in-a-lifetime experience for more than  

20 deserving students.

For 16 consecutive years, Grupo 

Peñafiel was recognized by the 

Mexico Center for Philanthropy for its 
commitment to social responsibility.

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

40

GOVERNANCE
Operating Ethically and Responsibly

We believe strong governance and oversight is the foundation for 

fostering a culture of integrity, building trust with our consumers 

and generating sustainable business performance. We invest 

significant time, resources and expertise in developing and 

maintaining processes and policies that keep us competitive, 

prepared and financially resilient. We continuously explore evolving 

best practices and assess what we can implement to further 

strengthen our approach.

I N  T H I S   S E C T I O N

Board Management & Oversight  

Ethics & Compliance  

Human Rights  

 
OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE
GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX

Board Management  
& Oversight

Corporate Governance

Guided by our values, ethics and integrity, our governance 

and management systems ensure that we operate our 

business and conduct ourselves with the highest level 

of accountability. The KDP Board of Directors oversees 

KDP’s corporate strategy, overall business and financial 

performance and risk management, and serves as an 

advisor to management on a range of topics. The Board 

has two standing committees to assist in discharging 

its duties – the Audit and Finance Committee and 

the Remuneration and Nomination Committee. The 

charter for each committee and information about the 

Company’s corporate governance principles are available 
on our website   . 

Corporate Responsibility  
& ESG Governance

The Board oversees KDP’s corporate responsibility 

strategy and progress and approves long-term goals and 

commitments under our focus areas of Environment, 

Supply Chain, Health & Well-being and People & 

Communities. KDP leadership provided quarterly 

updates to the Board on ESG topics in 2020, focused 

on sustainable packaging, energy and emissions, D&I 

initiatives and corporate governance. The Audit and 

Finance Committee assists the Board with oversight of 

financial controls, disclosures and risk management and 

included the appointment of a Lead Independent 

Director and the recruitment of new Directors.

The Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO) reports to the 

Chief Corporate Affairs Officer (CCAO) and leads 

corporate responsibility for KDP, including development 

of vision and strategy as well as day-to-day 

management of our corporate responsibility program. 

In addition to this key role, the CSO convenes the 

Sustainability Governance Committee, composed of 

key Executive Leadership Team (ELT) members, which 

approves cross-functional corporate responsibility 

initiatives and regularly monitors progress. The KDP 

ELT ensures the corporate responsibility program aligns 

with the long-term objectives of the business, advises 

on programs and oversees progress. The CSO and 

CCAO regularly collaborate with a cross-functional 

team of employees across the organization, including 

such areas as procurement, supply chain, research 

and development, quality, facilities, human resources 

and legal, to drive execution and measurement of the 

corporate responsibility strategy. 

Transparency & Disclosure

We are committed to provide stakeholders with 

transparent and candid information in all our public 

communications and disclosures. This third annual 

Corporate Responsibility Report for KDP is prepared in 

accordance with guidance from frameworks including 

those of the GRI, SASB, TCFD and relevant SDGs. 

We also respond to the CDP Climate and Water 

questionnaires and make those disclosures publicly 
available on our website   .

serves as an advisor to KDP financial leadership. The 

For this report, we have updated our materiality 

Remuneration and Nomination Committee assists the 

matrix and expanded our disclosure in several  

Board with oversight of corporate governance matters 

areas, including supply chain, product quality  

and supported the enhancement of governance structures 

& safety, health & well-being, D&I and  

over the past year, as KDP evolved from a controlled 

company to a widely held one. These enhancements 

governance. For more information please see  
the Reporting Framework Indices    in this report.

BOARD COMPOSITION

The Board is committed to the ongoing review 

of Board composition and regularly discusses 

the skills and characteristics required of KDP 

directors in the context of the current makeup 

of the Board, the operating requirements of 

the Company and the long-term interests of 

stockholders. The Board seeks candidates with 

diverse personal and professional backgrounds 

and experiences, who are committed to active 

participation and providing constructive 

feedback to management. As of this report 

publication, the makeup of the Board includes:

54% 
are “independent” under 

Nasdaq listing rules  

7 OUT OF 13

46% 
are women  

6 OUT OF 13

23% 
are racially or  

ethnically diverse  

3 OUT OF 13

More information on our Board is available on 
our website    and in our 2021 Proxy Statement   .  

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

42

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE
GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX

Ethics & 
Compliance

Policies & Training

Data Privacy & Protection 

Anchoring our ethics and compliance program is the KDP 
Code of Conduct   , which applies to all KDP officers and 
employees, as well as the Board of Directors. The Code 

We are committed to the privacy of our consumers, 

customers, employees and others with whom we 

conduct business. We take precautions to safeguard all 

of Conduct outlines the commitments we’ve made to 

personal information and ensure a secure environment 

our stakeholders and those with whom we do business, 

in accordance with applicable data protection laws. Those 

as well as the expectations we have of our Company 

precautions include devoting focused resources to network 

and employees to act in a professional, ethical and legal 

security, backup and disaster recovery, upgrading systems 

manner in all of their dealings.

KDP’s Code of Conduct, along with our Respectful 

Workplace and Anti-Harassment Policy, Business 

Pledge Against Equalities, Supplier Code of Conduct, 

Conflict Minerals Policy, Modern Slavery Statement and 
Environmental Policies may be found on our website   . 

We require employees and our Board of Directors to 

complete training in our Code of Conduct and core policies, 

administered via our online learning management systems 

and onsite training and through new employee orientation.

We also have a “Speaking Up” hotline and web portal, 

available 24 hours a day, seven days a week, that is 

managed by an independent third party to enable 

employees to confidentially and anonymously report  

any concerns regarding misconduct, compliance issues  

or violations of policies or laws.

and networks, enhanced training and other security 

measures to protect our systems and data. Our privacy 

policy governs the collection and use of consumer data 
and can be found on our website   .

Advocacy & Public Policy 

KDP has historically engaged in selective and bipartisan 

corporate political activity to support the interests of our 

customers, employees, shareholders and communities. 

This limited political advocacy consisted of membership 

in beverage and consumer trade associations, lobbying 

and political contributions made directly to candidates or 

through our political action committee (PAC). Our KDP PAC 

is funded solely through voluntary contributions from eligible 

employees, and we have not held a fundraising campaign 

since 2018. All activity is conducted in line with applicable 

law and according to the highest ethical standards. Please 
visit our website    for more information regarding KDP’s 
approach to political engagement and our corporate policy 

governing political contributions. 

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

43

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE
GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX

Human Rights

We recognize our responsibility to protect human 

rights and are committed to exemplifying good 

labor practices throughout our business activities. 

Our commitment to human rights starts with our 

employees, ensuring they have safe, supportive and 

respectful workplaces in which to thrive. 

Our ongoing commitment to responsibly source our 

priority inputs, such as coffee, cocoa and apples, 

ensures fundamental human rights are respected 

and the environment is protected. The integrity 

and quality of our products also depends on an 

inclusive supply chain that promotes the livelihoods 

of farmers, workers and marginalized populations. 

We have a legacy of pursuing projects and industry 

collaboration efforts for the benefit of coffee 

farmers and farm workers, and we are expanding 
that work into other KDP supply chains   . 

Advancing human rights  
within business operations  
and supply chains makes them 
safer, more secure and stable, 
and thus has the potential  
to boost productivity for all 
actors involved.

–B4IG Pledge Against Inequalities

ADVANCING AND PROTECTING HUMAN RIGHTS IN OUR SUPPLY CHAIN 

Modern Slavery Statement
Our Modern Slavery Statement    sets out the steps 
taken by KDP to prevent, identify and address human 

rights and modern slavery risks in our operations and 

supply chains. 

B4IG

As an inaugural member of the B4IG coalition, 

we are committed to business action to advance 

human rights, build inclusive workplaces and 
strengthen inclusion. Visit here    to read our 
Business Pledge Against Equalities.

Supplier Code of Conduct
Our Supplier Code of Conduct    forms the cornerstone of 
our commitment to responsibly source our products. The 

Conflict Minerals Policy

We are committed to the ethical sourcing of 

requirements are based on internationally recognized 

minerals, including tin, tantalum, tungsten and  

standards, including the UN Guiding Principles on 

Business and Human Rights, among others. 

gold (3TG), often referred to as “conflict minerals”. 
Our Conflict Minerals Policy is available here   .

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

44

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX
APPENDIX

Data Summary

For detail on methodologies and boundaries for the goals 
that these data support, see our Goal Methodology Table  .

Year ended December 31

All Packaging*

Percentage of all KDP packaging recyclable or compostable

Percentage of post-consumer recycled (PCR) content across total packaging portfolio

Plastic Packaging

Percentage of plastic packaging recyclable or compostable **

Percentage of post-consumer recycled (PCR) content across total plastic packaging portfolio

Virgin Plastic Reduction (%)

Plastic Packaging – Total (Metric Tons)

2018

86%

20%

N/A

0.3%

N/A

2019

87%

20%

64%

0.4%

Baseline Year

2020

90%

22%

74%

2%

1%

208,000

230,000

230,000

* In 2020, we expanded our packaging reporting to include most tertiary packaging and brewer packaging. These additions are reflected in 2019 and 2020 data.

** Reported data reflects plastics that are designed for recycling systems in the geographies where KDP distributes product. The Ellen MacArthur Global Commitment definition of “recyclable” specifies that a package type be recycled at a 

30% recycling rate across geographies of 400M or more inhabitants, which moves beyond the traditional definition of “recyclable”. In 2019, 46% of KDP plastic packaging fit this definition. In 2020, 50% of KDP plastic packaging fit the Global 
Commitment definition of “recyclable”.

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

45

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX
APPENDIX

Year ended December 31

2018

2019

2020

Packaging Mix (% of Total Weight)

PET Bottles 

Paper/Cardboard

Non-Refillable Glass Bottles

Aluminum & Steel

Polypropylene 

Polystyrene 

Other 

Flexible Packaging and Plastic Film

Refillable Glass Bottles

Waste

Total Waste Generated (Short Tons) 

Waste Diverted from Landfill (%)

25%

28% 

24% 

10% 

3% 

6% 

1%

2% 

2% 

23%

26%

23%

11%

6%

4%

4%

2%

2%

24%

26%

22%

12%

8%

0.2%

4%

3%

1%

72,096

86

72,407

88

114,241

92

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

46

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX
APPENDIX

Year ended December 31

Water

Total Withdrawal (Million Liters)

% Withdrawal, Municipal

% Withdrawal, Groundwater

Total Consumption (Million Liters) 

% Consumed in High Baseline Water Stress Areas

Total Discharge (Million Liters)

% Discharge to Municipal

% Discharge to Waterbody

Water Use Ratio (L/L)** 

(Liters of Water Required to Make One Liter of Product)

†Water Replenished in High Water-Risk Areas (Million Liters per Year)***

% Replenished****

2017

2018

2019

2020

13,112

13,132

12,653†

13,166†

74

26

7,259

N/A

5,848

68

32

2.05 

N/A

N/A

74

26

7,559

38%

5,573

66

34

1.99

N/A

N/A

74†

26†

7,290†

38%

5,363†

66†

34†

1.96

5,328

73

75†

25†

7,407†

30%*

5,759†

66†

34†

1.90†

5,824

73

† Third-party data assurance completed by ERM CVS with limited assurance for 2019 and 2020 and by Trucost for 2018. Most recent statement available on our 

reporting website here. 

* Based on WRI’s Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas v3.0 (2019) locations with High or Extremely high baseline water stress, aligned with SASB metric. Prior years used v2.1 of 

Aqueduct and additional indicators.

** The Water Use Ratio is calculated based on water withdrawals and production volumes, for cold beverage sites only.

*** Total water “replenished” or otherwise restored, protected, conserved in nature through our water stewardship partner projects.

**** Progress as the volume of water replenished vs. the projected total need by the end of 2025. All prior water balance projects related to our high-risk areas and coffee 

volumes are included, going back to 2014. 

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

47

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX
APPENDIX

Year ended December 31

2018

2019

2020

Greenhouse Gas Emissions & Energy
SCOPE 1: Direct Emissions (MtCOÇe)*

Stationary

Mobile

SCOPE 2: Indirect emissions, purchased energy (MtCOÇe)*

Market-based

Location-based

SCOPE 3: Indirect emissions, value chain (MtCOÇe)* 

Category breakdown:

Purchased goods and services

Capital goods

Fuel-and-energy-related activities (not included in scope 1 or 2)

Upstream transportation and distribution**

Waste generated in operations

Business travel

Employee commuting

Downstream transportation and distribution

Processing of sold products

Use of sold products

End-of-life treatment of sold products

Downstream leased assets

Total Energy Use (MWh)

Total direct energy usage (MWh)

Total purchased electricity use (MWh)

% Grid electricity 

Percentage of Renewable Energy***

Fleet Fuel Management

Total Fuel Consumed (Gigajoules) 

% Renewable

273,576†

116,495†

157,081†

137,560†

166,484†

8,809,224

3,963,399

35,627

97,291

481,603

797

8,324†

52,644

1,007,135

2,632,469

390,703

138,531

700

1,637,400

1,211,103

426,297

N/A

28%

N/A

N/A 

268,712 †

116,081 †

152,631 †

97,345 †

162,746 †

8,844,933

4,048,579

34,831

93,618

476,052

6,120

9,335

53,681 †

960,902

2,648,284

381,773

131,058

700

1,687,239 †

1,248,290 †

438,949 †

N/A

47%

N/A

N/A

289,755† 

128,958†

160,797†  

93,280† 

165,076†

8,455,045

3,245,773 

45,134 

97,180 

455,091 

7,365 

4,243 

50,833†

1,073,631 

2,726,216

664,521 

85,058 

0

1,812,598†

1,352,299†

460,299†

100%

50%†

2,325,866

0%

† Third-party data assurance completed by ERM CVS with limited assurance for 2019 and 2020 and by LRQA for 2018. Most recent statement available on our reporting website here. 

* Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions are accounted for in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol. We use the most current emission factors in our inventory each year and site- and supplier-specific factors where available. Scope 1 emissions 
are calculated with United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Emission Factors for Greenhouse Gas Inventories. Scope 2 emissions are calculated following both the location-based and the market-based methodologies as defined 
in the GHG Protocol. Location-based factors are taken from the eGRID and International Energy Agency (IEA) datasets for U.S. and international sites, respectively; market-based factors are taken from supplier-specific utility factors (for larger 
sites), Green-e (U.S.), AIB (Europe) and IEA. The latest datasets available at time of publication are used. 

** We have updated our methodology to reflect well-to-tank impacts and include CH4 and N20.  This resulted in a revision to prior year estimates for this category, and therefore Scope 3 totals as well. 

*** Renewable electricity in 2020 was sourced through a mix of Green-e certified REC products. For our under-construction Ireland site, the utility supplies 100% wind electricity.

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

48

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX
APPENDIX

Year ended December 31

2018

2019

2020

Responsible Sourcing - Coffee

Fair trade community development premiums (million USD)  

(cumulative) (since 2001) 

Percentage of coffee responsibly sourced

N/A

31%

96

65%

107

100%*

 X During 2020, 82% of our purchases of green coffee were responsibly sourced through third party sourcing programs. By the end of 2020, all coffee contracted to be received going forward is 100% responsibly sourced.

Responsible Sourcing - Appliances

Percentage of In-scope Suppliers for Brewers Responsibly Sourced

50%

63%

Tier 1 Contract Manufacturers

Percentage Suppliers in Program Scope

Number of Facility Audits Completed (Initial and Closure)

Average Initial Audit Score

Average Audit Score Post Closure Audit

Percentage of Findings Closed

Tier 2 Component Suppliers

Percentage of Suppliers In Program Scope

Number of Facility Audits Completed (Initial And Closure)

Average Initial Audit Score

Average Audit Score Post Closure Audit

Percentage of Findings Closed

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

100%

8

142

176

50%

36%

28

71

112

36%

86%

100%

11

109

188

86%

36%

19

128

156

31%

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

49

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX
APPENDIX

Year ended December 31

2018

2019

2020

Livelihoods
Number of people in our supply chain engaged to significantly improve their lives 

(cumulative) (since 2014)

Investments in improving livelihoods of coffee farmers (million USD)

(cumulative) (since 2003) 

630,000

783,000

1,084,000

60

63

64

Employee Engagement

Annual Survey Participation Rate 

Employee Engagement

Total Employee New Hire Rate

Total Employee Turnover Rate

Workplace Safety - Manufacturing*

Lost Time Injury Rate

Total Fatalities (work-related)

Total Recordable Injury Rate

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

0.17

0

1.23

65%

60%

N/A

N/A

0.23

0

1.25

81%

62%

32%

32%

0.19

0

0.78

*Includes only owned and operated KDP facilities in the U.S., Mexico and Canada; rates are calculated as frequency of injuries per 100 employees. 2018 and 2019 data revised due to incidents turning recordable after end of calendar year.

Workplace Safety - Direct Store Delivery*

Lost Time Injury Rate

Total Recordable Injury Rate

*Includes only U.S. operations. Rates are calculated as frequency of injuries per 100 employees.

2.0

9.7

1.6

8.2

1.9

6.7

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

50

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX
APPENDIX

2020 Global Employee Gender Demographics

Total Global KDP 

Female

Male

Not Disclosed

2020 U.S. Employee Racial/Ethnicity Demographics

Total U.S. KDP 

White

Hispanic

Black

Asian

Two or More Races

Not Disclosed

Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander

American Indian or Alaska Native

Total

26,701

4,759

21,869

73

Total

21,097

11,125

4,714

3,611

657

575

258

84

73

Director+ Professional

Other Professional

Hourly

687

180

501

6

10,227

2,215

7,992

20

15,787

2,364

13,376

47

Director+ Professional

Other Professional

Hourly

622

493

32

25

36

10

23

1

2

5,465

3,832

701

502

227

105

67

10

21

15,010

6,800

3,981

3,084

394

460

168

73

50

Data Definitions:

“Director+ Professional” - CEO, CFO, ELT, SVP, VP, Sr. Director, Director

“Other Professional” - Any employee with a pay rate type of salaried, below Director

“Hourly”- Any employee with a pay rate types “Hourly-Bi-weekly”, “Hourly-Weekly”, “Daily”, “Commission Only”

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

51

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX
APPENDIX

Goal Methodology

Goal

Unit of Measure

Commitment 
Made  
(year)

Target 
Completion  
(year*)

Boundaries

Exclusions

Validated by

Other/Comments

Convert 100% of packaging 

% of total 

2019

2025

Primary, secondary, and tertiary 

Third-party bottlers’ 

None

We are also working with third party 

to be recyclable or 

packaging by  

compostable by 2025

weight

packaging from KDP owned and 

packaging material

bottlers to enable measurement and 

operated food and beverage 

reporting of recyclability.

manufacturing facilities as well as 

Plastic Strapping, 

packaging used for brewers and 

adhesives, tapes, brewers 

Ongoing projects to recycle coffee brewers 

brewer accessories

and brewer components 

are additional to this goal.

Use 30% post-consumer 

% of total 

2019

2025

Primary, secondary, and tertiary 

Third-party bottlers’ 

None

We are also working with third party 

recycled (PCR) content 

packaging by  

across our packaging 

weight

portfolio by 2025

packaging from KDP owned and 

packaging material

bottlers to enable measurement and 

operated food and beverage 

reporting of PCR content.

manufacturing facilities as well as 

Plastic Strapping, 

packaging used for brewers and 

adhesives, tapes, brewers 

Ongoing projects to incorporate PCR in 

brewer accessories

and brewer components

coffee brewers are additional to this goal.

Use 25% post-consumer 

% of all plastic 

2019

2025

Primary, secondary, and tertiary 

Third-party bottlers’ 

None

Baseline year for goal measurement  

recycled (PCR) content in our 

packaging by weight

plastic packaging from KDP owned 

packaging material

was 2020.

plastic packaging by 2025

and operated food and beverage 

manufacturing facilities , as well as 

Plastic Strapping, 

We are also working with third party  

plastic packaging used for brewers 

adhesives, tapes, brewers 

bottlers to enable measurement and 

and brewer accessories

and brewer components

reporting of PCR content.

Ongoing projects to incorporate PCR in 

coffee brewers are additional to this goal.

Achieve a 20% virgin plastic 

% of virgin plastic 

2021

2025

Primary, secondary, and tertiary 

Third-party bottlers’ 

None

Baseline year for goal measurement  

reduction across our plastic 

packaging by weight

virgin plastic packaging from  

packaging material

was 2019.

packaging portfolio by 2025

KDP owned and operated food  

and beverage manufacturing 

Plastic Strapping, 

We are also working with third party 

facilities, as well as virgin plastic 

adhesives, tapes, brewers 

bottlers to enable measurement and 

packaging used for brewers and 

and brewer components

reporting of virgin plastic reduction.

brewer accessories

Ongoing projects to reduce virgin plastic use 

in coffee brewers are additional to this goal.

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

52

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX
APPENDIX

Goal

Unit of Measure

Commitment 
Made  
(year)

Target 
Completion  
(year*)

Boundaries

Exclusions

Validated by

Other/Comments

Send zero waste to  

% solid waste, by 

2019

2025

Solid waste at manufacturing  

Does not include offices, 

None

Baseline year for goal measurement  

landfill across our  

operations by 2025

weight, diverted 

from landfill

sites only.  

warehouses/DCs except 

was 2018.

in some instances of 

co-location with the 

manufacturing site, or any 

other properties that are 

not production facilities.  

Nonetheless, many of 

these excluded facilities 

have robust recycling and 

waste diversion practices.

Partner with our highest 

% water replenished 

2019

2025

6 focus communities were 

Limnotech

Baseline year for goal measurement  

water-risk operating 

of projected 2025 

communities to replenish 

volume used in 

100% of water used for 

products produced 

our beverages in those 

at high-water risk 

communities by 2025

sites and water 

used to brew 
beverages with  

our pods

was 2014.

determined by a water risk 

assessment that utilized the Ecolab 

Water Risk Monetizer and the World 

Resources Institute’s Aqueduct

Water Risk Atlas, and expert 

knowledge from LimnoTech.  
The locations are: Houston, TX, 

Vernon, CA, and Victorville, CA, in 

the U.S., and Tecamac, Tehuacan,  

and Tlajomulco in MX.

Water replenishment project 

water volumes are calculated on a 

yearly basis (ML/yr) - that is, the 

annual volume benefit they deliver. 

Replenishment progress is calculated 

as a percentage of the goal, not of a 

given year’s water consumption. 

Replenish volumes are only counted 

toward the site they are relevant for, 

and only up to 100% of that site’s 

projected 2025 volume.

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

53

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX
APPENDIX

Goal

Unit of Measure

Commitment 
Made  
(year)

Target 
Completion  
(year*)

Boundaries

Exclusions

Validated by

Other/Comments

Improve our water 

% improvement 

2019

2025

Cold beverage manufacturing sites. Does not include new  

None

Approach is aligned to Beverage Industry 

use efficiency by 20% 

in water use ratio 

by 2025

(water use ratio = 

water in final product 

divided by total 

water withdrawals 

and is measured as 

"Liters per Liters" or 

L/L).

sites Allentown or  

Newbridge (Ireland). 

Environmental Roundtable (BIER) definitions 

and approach.

Baseline year for goal measurement  

was 2017.

Coffee roasting/ packaging sites, 

offices, DCs/ Warehouses, and 

any other properties that are not 

cold beverage production facilities.  

Does not include third  

party bottlers.

Obtain 100% of  

renewable electricity 

2019

2025

All KDP owned and operated 

RE100 

Baseline year for goal measurement  

electricity from 

purchases as % 

renewable sources  

of total electrcity 

by 2025

consumption

facilities' electricity consumption is 

included. Consumption is estimated 

for some small sites.

was 2018. 

Reduce Scope 1 and 2 

MTCO2e (metric 

2019

2030

The reductions targeted are  

Refrigerant leaks from HVAC 

SBTi (Science 

Baseline year for goal measurement  

emissions by 30%  

tons carbon dioxide 

by 2030

equivalents)

against all KDP energy use from 

systems in facilities

owned and operated assets, and 

purchased electricity.

was 2018.

Based 

Targets 

initiative)

Reduce Scope 3 

MTCO2e (metric 

2019

2030

The reductions targeted cover the 

emissions  

tons carbon dioxide 

in select categories 

equivalents)

15% by 2030

Scope 3 categories of purchased 

goods and services, fuel and 

energy-related activities, upstream 

transportation and distribution and 

the use of sold products. 

Engage bottlers 

% of Scope 3 

2019

2024

The suppliers and bottlers targeted 

and select suppliers 

emissions covered by 

representing  

bottler and supplier 

50% of Scope 3 

SBTs

emissions to set a 

science-based  

target by 2024

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

cover the Scope 3 categories of 

purchased goods and services, 

downstream transportation 

and distribution, processing of 

sold products and the end-of-life 

treatment of sold products.

SBTi (Science 

The categories included in KDP's  

Based 

Targets 

absolute reduction commitment of  

scope 3 GHG emissions are purchased 

initiative)

goods and services, fuel and energy-related 

activities, upstream transportation and 

distribution and the use of sold products. 

Baseline year for goal measurement  

was 2018.

SBTi (Science 

The Scope 3 categories covered for 

Based 

Targets 

bottler and supplier engagement are 

purchased goods and services, downstream 

initiative)

transportation and distribution, processing 

of sold products and the end-of-life 

treatment of sold products will have science-

based targets by 2024.

Baseline year for goal measurement  

was 2018.

54

 
OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX
APPENDIX

Goal

Unit of Measure

Commitment 
Made  
(year)

Target 
Completion  
(year*)

Boundaries

Exclusions

Validated by

Other/Comments

% of responsibly 

2014

Ongoing

All green coffee purchased by KDP 

Soluble and green  

Purchased 

KDP’s evaluation tool was 

sourced coffee  

by volume

for owned and partner brands.

coffee extract.

volumes validated 

independently reviewed by 

Green coffee or other 

International, 

World Wildlife Fund (WWF).

by Fairtrade 

Conservation International and  

coffee inputs purchased 

Fair Trade USA, 

by partners.

Rainforest Alliance, 

Utz, 4C, OLAM 

AtSource Entry 

Verified, and Great 

Lakes Coffee 

MaxTRACE

% of responsibly 

2021

2021

All cocoa purchased by KDP 

Cocoa purchased  

Purchased volumes 

KDP’s evaluation tool was 

sourced cocoa  

by volume

including if sourced as a standalone 

by partners 

validated by 

independently reviewed by 

ingredient or within a blended 

powder finished product; including 

if sourced directly or from a co-

manufacturer or processor

UTZ, Rainforest 

Conservation International and  

Alliance, Fair Trade 

World Wildlife Fund (WWF).

USA, Fairtrade 

International

Responsibly source  

our brewers and 100%  

of our priority inputs

# of suppliers  

2014

2020

All in-scope Alliance and Strategic  

All in-scope Core and 

Third party 

Suppliers deemed in scope for KDP’s 

that have  

achieved a  

Silver recognition 

level in a Responsible 

Business  

Alliance audit 

suppliers according to the supplier 

Transactional  suppliers 

auditors

Supplier Performance Management 

prioritization criteria of KDP’s 

according to the 

Supplier Performance Management 

supplier prioritization 

Program. These include our most 

criteria of KDP’s 

important appliance, finished 

Supplier Performance 

goods, component, accessory and 

Management program.

packaging suppliers.

program are determined by 

importance to KDP’s business 

based on spend, quality, cost and 

substitutability.  Each supplier is 

categorized as Alliance, Strategic, 

Core or Transactional to indicate 

their level of importance to KDP. 

Baseline year for goal measurement 

was 2017.

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

55

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX
APPENDIX

Goal

Unit of Measure

Commitment 
Made  
(year)

Target 
Completion  
(year*)

Boundaries

Exclusions

Validated by

Other/Comments

Engage one million people 

Number of people

2014

2020

Direct beneficiaries of KDP social 

in our supply chain to 

significantly improve their 

lives by 2020

impact investments.  The full 
methodology is posted publicly here

See the full methodology 
document posted here

None

Methodology was co-developed 

by partner NGOs and academic 

institutions including the University 

of Vermont in Agroecology and Rural 

Livelihoods Group (ARLG), CRS, 

Global Environment and Technology 

Foundation, Fair Trade USA, Heifer 

International, Mercy Corps, Root 

Capital, and Save The Children.  

Support regenerative 

Number of acres

2021

2030

Coffee, Corn, Apple supply chains. 

TBD

TBD

During 2021, KDP will work with 

agriculture and conservation 

on 250,000 acres of land  

by 2030

Specific boundaries TBD

third party validators to establish a 

methodology for measuring progress 

towards this new goal. 

Advance inclusion by 

TBD

2021

Ongoing

Coffee, Apple, Brewer supply chains. 

TBD

TBD

During 2021, KDP will work with 

addressing barriers to  

entry and prosperity in  

our supply chain

Specific boundaries: TBD

third party validators to establish a 

methodology for measuring progress 

towards this new goal. 

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

56

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX
APPENDIX

Goal

Unit of Measure

Commitment 
Made  
(year)

Target 
Completion  
(year*)

Boundaries

Exclusions

Validated by

Other/Comments

Provide positive 

% of total number 

2021

2025

Positive hydration is defined  

Excludes multi-packs,  

Partnership for a 

hydration in 60% of  

of KDP products

as a product that provides a  

co-packed brands and 

Healthier America

our products by 2025

serving of fruits/vegetables or  

private label.

is below 40 calories per serving  

with a functional attribute or at 

least 10% daily value of a nutrient 

to encourage.

All hot and cold, owned, licensed 

and partner brands. Includes 

fountain beverages and all unique 

portion sizes.

Provide play 

Number of children

2016

2020

Impact defined as the number of 

Adult caregivers who 

None

Data reported by the beneficiaries  

opportunities to 13.5 

million children by 2020

children in programs using donated 

accompany children to 

of our playgrounds/equipment

equipment over the average 

playgrounds; coaches 

lifespan of the equipment and the 

& administrators of 

number of children, on average,  

programs using  

who visit a given playground over 

donated equipment

the lifespan of the playground.

Increase female 

% of Director-

2021

2025

Director-level and above employees 

All employees  

None

representation in Director 

level and above 

and above positions by 

employees

25% by 2025

in all geographies

below Director

Increase people of color 

% of Director-

2021

2025

Director-level and above employees 

All employees  

None

representation in Director 

level and above 

and above positions by 

employees

25% by 2025

*Goals will be met by the end of the specified year

in the U.S. only

below director

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

57

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX
APPENDIX

Stakeholder Engagement

Stakeholder

Employees

How We Engage

•  Intranet

•  Employee communications website and app

•  Online collaboration tools: Workplace and KDP Wellness 

platforms

•  Weekly newsletters, executive communications, and team 

information cascades

•  Quarterly Town Hall meetings

•  Bi-monthly VP+ meetings

•  Employee engagement surveys

Sample Recent Initiatives 

•  Launched 1st Up, a new KDP communications platform powered by industry-leading 
vendor Social Chorus, accessible anytime to all 27,000 employees from their work or 
personal devices to stay up to date on KDP news and information on a single platform

•  Conducted weekly senior leadership meetings to keep leaders engaged and informed, 

supporting them in communicating and engaging with their teams

•  Distributed daily emails to employees at the onset of the pandemic, as well as regional 
shelter-in-place orders, to keep them informed of safety protocols and our progress in 
navigating the rapidly changing environment

•  Launched daily text messages on safety protocols, KDP news and COVID-19 

developments to connect with distribution employees not at facilities 

•  Peer-to-Peer Observation program in manufacturing facilities

•  Leveraged technology tools to support employee collaboration and new ways of working 
that enabled successful remote working arrangements necessitated by the pandemic

•  Executed employee engagement campaigns focused on safety and wellness

•  Launched eight Employee Resource Groups to create space for employees to build 

connection and community

Suppliers

•  Supplier Summits

•  Trained targeted appliance suppliers on our responsible sourcing standards and 

•  Individual and broad-based communications

•  Supplier trainings, assessments and remediation processes

•  Social impact investment through NGOs

expectations

•  Invested in Blue Harvest to promote sustainable farming practices and increase access to 

clean water for coffee farmers and communities in Central America

•  Invested in World Coffee Research to support the development of new coffee varieties, 

conducted on-farm trials and delivered new climate-smart technologies

•  Invested in Root Capital efforts to strengthen coffee farmer cooperatives by providing 

financial management training, advisory services and financing to producer organizations 
serving coffee farmers

•  Leveraged membership with the Business for Inclusive Growth coalition, providing 

partnership and shared learning on projects aimed to fight inequalities in companies and 
global supply chains

Consumers

•  Marketing & advertising campaigns

•  Promoted the transition of our K-Cup pods to recyclable polypropylene plastic in the U.S. 

•  Consumer Care hotlines

•  Brand social media channels and websites

•  Influencer engagement

•  Sponsorships, sweepstakes and giveaways

and Canada through retail, consumer engagement and community partners 

•  Promoted Keurig brewers made from recycled content in Canada 

•  Granted $2 million in tuition awards to deserving students through annual Dr Pepper 

Tuition Giveaway program

•  Paid marketing campaigns related to new zero sugar carbonated soft drink varieties

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

58

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX
APPENDIX

Stakeholder

Customers

How We Engage

Sample Recent Initiatives 

•  Individual and broad-based communications

•  Held semi-regular sustainability meetings with our top customers to provide updates on 

•  Industry conference/tradeshows

•  Direct engagement

our sustainability initiatives, share best practices and explore partnerships

•  Donated $250,000 to the National Restaurant Association Education Foundation 
Employee Relief Fund to support cash grants provided to U.S. restaurant workers 
financially impacted by the COVID-19 crisis

•  Earth Day shopper marketing campaign promoting Green Mountain Coffee Roasters 

recyclable K-Cup pods, now made with polypropylene plastic

•  Point-of-sale marketing and digital activations promoting new Core Hydration bottle 

made from 100% recycled plastic

NGOs

•  Corporate and organizational memberships

•  Continued work with The Nature Conservancy to identify and understand the watersheds 

•  Direct engagement

in the areas where we operate, collaborating on targeted solutions

•  With peers of the Beverage Industry Environmental Roundtable, Grupo Peñafiel joined 
a first-of-its kind industry collaboration to address shared water challenges in the 
Municipality of Tlajomulco de Zúñiga

•  Investment in and advisory of Closed Loop Infrastructure Fund and The Recycling 

Partnership to remove obstacles to recycling access and improve profitability of the 
recycling industry

•  Continued collaboration with the American Beverage Association, along with our 
beverage industry peers, in support of the Every Bottle Back initiative to increase 
recycling of PET plastic

•  Co-founded The Recycling Partnership’s Polypropylene Recycling Coalition to improve 

polypropylene recovery and recycling in the U.S. and further develop the end market of 
high-quality recycled polypropylene

•  Worked collaboratively with the Partnership for a Healthier America to provide expertise 
in the health and well-being space as well as helping to set our portfolio-wide goal. We 
entered into a multi-year partnership for validation of our goal and advisement

Investors

•  Quarterly earnings reports, including conference calls and 

SEC filings

•  Financial conferences and investor events, with involvement 

•  Attended multiple virtual investor conferences and fireside chats with financial analysts 
and investors throughout the year, addressing a wide range of business strategy and  
ESG topics

from both management and IR

•  Conducted a virtual Annual Shareholders Meeting, including a Q&A session

•  Financial publications and filings, including Annual Report and 

•  Provided remarks from our Chairman & CEO during the Nasdaq ‘Opening Bell’ ceremony, 

Proxy Statement

•  Company website

along with significant media assets, in conjunction with our switch to the Nasdaq

•  Enhanced disclosure on KeurigDrPepper.com to share our response to COVID-19 across 
the organization, including details on our approach to keeping our employees safe and 
healthy, delivering for our customers and consumers and providing for our communities 

•  Enhanced disclosure and content in our annual Proxy Statement

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

59

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX
APPENDIX

Stakeholder

How We Engage

Sample Recent Initiatives 

Regulators/policymakers

•  Industry trade associations

•  KDP U.S. Political Action Committee

•  Policy coalitions

•  Direct engagement

Communities

•  Employee volunteering and financial giving

•  Partnerships with local and national NGOs

•  Continued partnership with the American Beverage Association and Consumer Brands 
Association on a range of issues facing the beverage and CPG industries at the Federal 
and State level

•  Collaborated with The Recycling Partnership’s Circular Economy Accelerator,  

including contributions to the group’s September 2020 White Paper on producer 
responsibility models

•  Participated in the political process through contributions from the KDP PAC 

•  Conducted meetings and correspondence with members of Congress and the House of 

Representatives on key sustainability issues, with a particular focus on recycling

•  Engaged with state and local officials to showcase KDP’s work within communities and 

to promote improved recycling systems that can accept and recycle KDP products

•  Created our Fueling the Frontline program, which provided four million cups of coffee 
and other beverages, along with thousands of brewers, to more than 500 hospitals in 
the U.S. and Canada in support of healthcare workers on the frontline of COVID-19

•  Awarded 35 playground grants and 162 sports equipment grants through our Let’s 
Play program, which will provide play opportunities to approximately 400,000 kids, 
upon completion of projects underway

•  Supported more than 650 nonprofits in communities across North America and 

Mexico through our match campaign Engage for Good

•  Donated more than 277,000 beverages to support disaster relief efforts in 

communities affected by Hurricane Delta, Hurricane Laura, Hurricane Sally, California 
wildfires and more

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

60

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX
APPENDIX

Reporting Framework Indices

Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index

This 2020 Corporate Responsibility Report was created in accordance with GRI Standards: Core option. 

All standards are the GRI 2016 version. Reporting disclosures may not be applied fully for all Standards.

Disclosure

Response

Organization Profile

102-1

Name of the organization

102-2

Activities, brands, products, and services

102-3

Location of headquarters

102-4

Location of operations

102-5 Ownership and legal form

102-6 Markets served

102-7

Scale of the organization

102-8

Information on employees and other workers

102-9

Supply chain

102-10

Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain

2020 Form 10-K, Part I, Item 1, page 1

Overview, page 4
2020 Form 10-K, Part I, Item 1, page 1

2020 Form 10-K, Part I, Item 2, page 21

2020 Form 10-K, Part I, Item 2, page 21

2020 Form 10-K, Part I, Item 1, page 1

2020 Form 10-K, Part I, Item 1, page 1

2020 Form 10-K, Part I, Item 1, page 1

People & Communities, pages 32-40

2020 Form 10-K, Part I, Item 1, page 7

Overview, page 7

Supply Chain, pages 20-26
2020 Form 10-K, Part I, Item 1, pages 5-6

Supply Chain, pages 20-26 
2020 Form 10-K, Part I, Item 1, pages 1-9

102-11

Precautionary Principle or approach

KDP supports the precautionary principle to guide its actions and routinely evaluates a 

wide range of risks and takes precautionary steps where warranted.  
Ethics & Compliance

102-12

External initiatives

102-13 Membership of associations 

Environment, pages 11-19

Supply Chain, pages 20-26

Health & Well-being, pages 27-31

People & Communities, pages 32-40

Environment, pages 11-19

Supply Chain, pages 20-26

Health & Well-being, pages 27-31
People & Communities, pages 32-40

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

61

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX
APPENDIX

Disclosure

Response

Strategy
102-14

Statement from senior decision-maker

102-15

Key impacts, risk and opportunities 

Ethics & Integrity

Chairman & CEO and CSO Letter, page 3

Governance, pages 41-44
2020 Form 10-K, Part 1, Item 1, pages 1-9 & Part 1, Item 1A, pages 10-20

102-16

Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 

Our Corporate Responsibility Strategy, page 6

102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics

Governance

102-18 Governance structure 

102-19

Delegating authority

102-20

Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics 

102-21

Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics

102-22

Composition of the highest governance body and its committees

102-23

Chair of the highest governance body 

Governance, pages 41-44
Ethics & Compliance 

Governance, pages 41-44
Corporate Code of Conduct 
KDP Conflict Minerals Policy

KDP Modern Slavery Statement

Governance, pages 41-44
2021 Proxy Statement, page 13
Principles of Corporate Governance

Governance, pages 41-44
2021 Proxy Statement, pages 14-15

Governance, pages 41-44
2021 Proxy Statement, pages 14-15

Governance, pages 41-44
2020 Form 10-K, Part I, Item 1, pages 1-9
Stakeholder Engagement Table, page 58-60

Governance, pages 41-44
2021 Proxy Statement, pages 13-14
Principles of Corporate Governance

Governance, pages 41-44
2021 Proxy Statement, page 13

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

62

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX
APPENDIX

Disclosure

Governance (cont.)

102-24

Nominating and selecting the highest governing body

102-26

Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy

102-27

Collective knowledge of highest governance body

102-28

Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance

102-29

Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts

102-30

Effectiveness of risk management process

102-31

Review of economic, environmental, and social topics

102-32

Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting 

102-33

Communicating critical concerns

102-35

Remuneration policies

102-36

Process for determining remuneration

Response

Governance, pages 41-44
2021 Proxy Statement, page 6

Governance, pages 41-44
2021 Proxy Statement, pages 14-15

Governance, pages 41-44
2021 Proxy Statement, pages 14-15

Governance, pages 41-44
2021 Proxy Statement, page 15

Governance, pages 41-44
2021 Proxy Statement, page 15

Governance, pages 41-44
2021 Proxy Statement, page 15

Governance, pages 41-44
2021 Proxy Statement, page 15

Governance, pages 41-44
2021 Proxy Statement, page 15

Governance, pages 41-44
2021 Proxy Statement, page 17

2021 Proxy Statement, page 25
KDP Remuneration and Nomination Committee Charter

2021 Proxy Statement, page 25
KDP Remuneration and Nomination Committee Charter

102-37

Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration

2021 Proxy Statement, page 26

102-38

Annual total compensation ratio

2021 Proxy Statement, page 41

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

63

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX
APPENDIX

Disclosure

Stakeholder Engagement
List of stakeholder groups

102-40

102-41

Collective bargaining agreements

102-42

Identifying and selecting stakeholders 

102-43

Approach to stakeholder engagement

102-44

Key topics and concerns raised

Reporting Practices

Response

Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality, page 8

Stakeholder Engagement Table, pages 58-60

2020 Form 10-K, Part I, Item 1, page 7

Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality, page 8

Stakeholder Engagement Table, pages 58-60

Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality, page 8

Stakeholder Engagement Table, pages 58-60

Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality, page 8

105-45

Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 

2020 Form 10-K, Exhibit 21.1

105-46

Defining report content and topic Boundaries 

102-47

List of material topics 

102-48

Restatements of information

102-49

Changes in reporting 

102-50

Reporting period 

102-51

Date of most recent report 

102-52

Reporting cycle

About this Report, page 2

Goal Methodology, pages 52-57

Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality, page 8

About this Report, page 2

Data Summary, pages 45-51

About this Report, page 2

Goal Methodology, pages 52-57

About this Report, page 2

August 2020

Annual  

102-53

Contact point for questions regarding the report 

KDP welcomes questions about, and feedback on, its corporate responsibility work and 
invites anyone to contact us at sustainability@kdrp.com.

102-54

Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards

About this Report, page 2

102-55 GRI content index

102-56

External assurance 

GRI Index, pages 61-70

About this Report, page 2

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

64

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX
APPENDIX

Disclosure

Management Approach

Response

103-1

Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary

Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality, page 8

Goal Methodology, pages 52-57
Monitoring and Evaluation Guide for Social Impact Projects

103-2

The management approach and its components

Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality, page 8

103-3

Evaluation of the management approach

Economic

Topic-Specific Standards

Goal Methodology, pages 52-57
Monitoring and Evaluation Guide for Social Impact Projects

Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality, page 8

Goal Methodology, pages 52-57
Monitoring and Evaluation Guide for Social Impact Projects

201-1

Direct economic value generated and distributed

2020 Form 10-K, Part II, Item 8, page 51

201-2

Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change

2020 Form 10-K, Part I, Item 1A, pages 17-18
2020 CDP Climate Submission (FY 2019 Reporting)

201-3

Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans

2020 Form 10-K, Part I, Item 1, page 7 & Part II, Item 8, pages 85-90

Indirect Economic Impacts

203-1

Infrastructure investments & services supported

203-2

Significant indirect economic impacts

Environment, pages 11-19

Supply Chain, pages 20-26

People & Communities, pages 32-40
Coffee Supply Chain Sustainability Investments

Environment, pages 11-19

Supply Chain, pages 20-26

People & Communities, pages 32-40
Coffee Supply Chain Sustainability Investments

Anti-Corruption

205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption

KDP risk assesses our supply base utilizing third party risk data from Verisk Maplecroft, 

which includes country-level inherent corruption risk.

205-2

Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures

KDP Ethics and Compliance policies

Anti-competitive Behavior

206-1

Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices

KDP Ethics and Compliance policies

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

65

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX
APPENDIX

Disclosure

Environmental

Materials

301-1 Materials used by weight or volume

301-2

Recycled input materials used

Energy
302-1

Energy consumption within the organization

Response

Environment, page 11-19

Data Summary, pages 45-51

Product Design & Circular Economy, pages 12-14

Data Summary, pages 45-51

Climate, Emissions & Energy, pages 18-19

Data Summary, pages 45-51

302-2

Energy consumption outside of the organization

Climate, Emissions & Energy, pages 18-19

302-4

Reduction of energy consumption

Data Summary, pages 45-51

302-5

Reductions of energy requirements of products and services

Climate, Emissions & Energy, pages 18-19

Data Summary, pages 45-51

Water

303-1 Water withdrawal by source

Water Efficiency & Stewardship, pages 16-17

Data Summary, pages 45-51

303-2 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 

Water Efficiency & Stewardship, pages 16-17

Emissions

305-1

Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions

305-2

Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions

305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions

305-4 GHG emissions intensity

305-5

Reduction of GHG emissions

Data Summary, pages 45-51

Climate, Emissions & Energy, pages 18-19

Data Summary, pages 45-51

Climate, Emissions & Energy, pages 18-19

Data Summary, pages 45-51

Climate, Emissions & Energy, pages 18-19

Data Summary, pages 45-51

Data Summary, pages 45-51

Climate, Emissions & Energy, pages 18-19

Data Summary, pages 45-51

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

66

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX
APPENDIX

Disclosure

Effluents & Waste

Response

306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination

2020 CDP Climate Submission (FY 2019 Reporting)

306-2 Waste by type and disposal method

Environmental Compliance

Resource Use & Conservation, page 15

Data Summary, pages 45-51

307-1

Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations

In the normal course of business, KDP is subject to a variety of federal, state and local 

environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. KDP maintains environmental, 

health and safety policies and a quality, environmental, health and safety program 

designed to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The cost of such 

compliance measures does not have a material financial impact on KDP operations.

Supplier Environmental Assessment

308-1

New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria

We require our most important coffee, appliance, packaging and ingredient  

suppliers (Tier 1 and some Tier 2) to certify each year to commit to following  
KDP Supplier Code of Conduct.

Social

Employment

401-1

New employee hires and employee turnover

Data Summary, pages 45-51

401-2

Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-
time employees

Employee Engagement & Development, pages 35-36

Occupational Health & Safety

403-2

Types of injury & rate of injury, occupation diseases, lost days & absenteeism and 
number of work related fatalities

Employee Health & Safety, pages 33-34

Data Summary, pages 45-51

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

67

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX
APPENDIX

Disclosure

Training and Education

Response

404-1

Average hours of training per year per employee

Employee Engagement & Development, pages 35-36

404-2

Programs for upgrading employee skills & transition assistance programs

Employee Engagement & Development, pages 35-36

404-3

Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development 
reviews

Employee Engagement & Development, pages 35-36

Diversity and Equal Opportunity

405-1

Diversity of governance bodies and employees

Child Labor

Diversity & Inclusion, pages 37-38

Data Summary, page 45-51

408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor

No KDP operations were identified as having significant risks for incidences of  

child labor in 2020. KDP’s Supplier Code of Conduct outlines expectations for the 

Company’s suppliers regarding child labor in their supply chain. Our most important 

suppliers are asked annually to commit to following the KDP Supplier Code of Conduct. 

The company enforces the Code through supplier audits and through purchases of 

certified/verified products. KDP uses a risk assessment process to prioritize audits  

and other supply chain engagements.

Human Rights, page 44
KDP Conflict Minerals Report

KDP Modern Slavery Disclosure

KDP Supplier Code of Conduct 

Forced or Compulsory Labor

409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor

No KDP operations were identified as having significant risks for incidences of forced or 

compulsory labor in 2020. KDP’s Supplier Code of Conduct outlines expectations for the 

Company’s suppliers regarding forced or compulsory labor in their supply chain. Our most 

important suppliers are asked annually to commit to following the KDP Supplier Code of 

Conduct. The company enforces the Code through supplier audits and through purchases 

of certified/verified products. KDP uses a risk assessment process to prioritize audits and 

other supply chain engagements.

Human Rights, page 44  
KDP Conflict Minerals Report

KDP Modern Slavery Disclosure

KDP Supplier Code of Conduct 

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

68

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX
APPENDIX

Disclosure

Response

Rights of Indigenous Peoples

411-1

Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples

There were no reported incidents of violation involving rights of indigenous peoples 

Human Rights Assessment

412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments

412-2

Employee training on human rights policies or procedures

in 2020. KDP’s Supplier Code of Conduct outlines expectations for the Company’s 

suppliers regarding rights of indigenous peoples in their supply chain. Our most 

important suppliers are asked annually to commit to following the KDP Supplier  

Code of Conduct. The company enforces the Code through supplier audits and  

through purchases of certified/verified products. KDP uses a risk assessment  

process to prioritize audits and other supply chain engagements.

Human Rights, page 44  
KDP Conflict Minerals Report

KDP Modern Slavery Disclosure

KDP Supplier Code of Conduct

KDP suppliers are held to specific standards, which have been outlined in the  
KDP Supplier Code of Conduct. Our most important suppliers are asked annually  
to commit to following the KDP Supplier Code of Conduct.

KDP requires all employees to undergo training on the Corporate Code of Conduct on an 
annual basis. KDP Procurement is also trained regularly on supply chain human rights risk.  
KDP Modern Slavery Statement

Local Communities

413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development 

Environment, pages 11-19

programs

Supply Chain, pages 20-26

People & Communities, pages 32-40

Supplier Social Assessment

414-1

New suppliers that were screened using social criteria

Keurig suppliers are held to specific standards, which have been outlined in the KDP 
Supplier Code of Conduct. We require our most important coffee, appliance, packaging 
and ingredient suppliers to certify each year that they understand and agree to adhere 

to the KDP Supplier Code of Conduct. Our Code includes social criteria aligned to 

internationally recognized standards, including the UN Guiding Principles on Business 

and Human Rights, the UN Global Compact Principles and the International Labour 

Organisation (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Rights and Principles at Work.

414-2

Negative social impacts in the supply chain & actions taken

KDP Modern Slavery Statement

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

69

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX
APPENDIX

Disclosure

Public Policy

415-1

Political contributions

Response

KDP Political Engagement Approach

KDP Political Contributions Policy

Customer Health and Safety

416-1

Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories

Product Quality & Safety, page 31

Marketing & Labor

417-1

Requirements for product and service information and labeling

Responsible Marketing & Labeling, page 30

417-2

Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labeling

There were no reported incidents of non-compliance.

417-3

Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications

Responsible Marketing & Labeling, page 30

KDP follows all regulatory labelling requirements. In addition, consumers can find 

information on all of our cold beverages such as nutritional facts and ingredients (with 
descriptions) on https://www.kdpproductfacts.com/.

Customer Privacy

418-1

Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of 
customer data

KDP received no substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and 

identified no losses of customer data in 2020.

Socioeconomic Compliance

419-1

Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area

KDP had no issues of non-compliance with social or economic laws or regulations in 2020.

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

70

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX
APPENDIX

Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Index

For additional detail, including assurance on data for the report, see Data Summary    in the Appendix.

Non-Alcoholic Beverages

Sustainability Disclosure Topics & Accountability Metrics

Topic

Accounting Metric

Category

Unit of Measure

Code

Response

Fleet Fuel 

Management

Fleet fuel consumed, percentage renewable

Quantitative

Gigajoules (GJ), 
Percentage (%)

FB-NB-110a.1

2,325,866, 0%

Energy  

(1) Operational energy consumed, (2) percentage grid 

Quantitative

Management

electricity, (3) percentage renewable

Gigajoules (GJ), 
Percentage (%)

FB-NB-130a.1

Data Summary, page 45-51

(1)  2,542,414 total energy  
(2) 100% grid electricity 
(3) 50% renewable electricity

Data Summary, pages 45-51

(1) Total water withdrawn, (2) total water consumed, 

Quantitative

percentage of each in regions with High or Extremely 

High Baseline Water Stress

Thousand cubic 
meters (m3), 
Percentage (%)

FB-NB-140a.1

(1) 13,166, 30% 
(2) 7,407, 30%

Water  
Management

Description of water management risks and 

discussion of strategies and practices to mitigate 

Discussion  
and Analysis

those risks

N/A

FB-NB-140a.2 We operate in areas of high baseline water stress, and 

stress is projected to increase over time. Our water 
efficiency target aims to reduce impact to local water 
supplies and our water stewardship efforts implement 
water replenishment and conservation in areas of 
highest water risk where we have operations.

Water Efficiency & Stewardship, pages 16-17 
Data Summary, pages 45-51

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

71

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX
APPENDIX

Sustainability Disclosure Topics & Accountability Metrics

Topic

Accounting Metric

Category

Unit of Measure

Code

Response

Health &  

Nutrition

Product Labeling 

& Marketing

Revenue from (1) zero- and low-calorie,  

Quantitative

(2) no-added-sugar, and (3) artificially  

sweetened beverages

Reporting 
Currency

FB-NB-260a.1 We do not report this publicly. However, we do have a 

goal that 60% of our beverages will provide positive 
hydration by 2025. Positive hydration is defined as a 
product that provides a serving of fruits/vegetables 
with no added sugar or is below 40 calories with either 
a functional attribute or at least 10% Daily Value of a 
nutrient to encourage. 

Consumer Health & Well-being, pages 28-29

Discussion of the process to identify and manage 

products and ingredients related to nutritional and 

Discussion and 
Analysis

health concerns among consumers

N/A

FB-NB-260a.2 Consumer Health & Well-being, pages 28-29

Percentage of advertising impressions (1) made on 

Quantitative

Percentage (%)

FB-NB-270a.1

0%

children and (2) made on children promoting products 

that meet dietary guidelines*

Responsible Marketing & Labeling, page 30 

Revenue from products labeled as (1) containing 

Quantitative

genetically modified organisms (GMOs) and  

(2) non-GMO

Reporting 
Currency

FB-NB-270a.2 We do not report this publicly. Per our materiality 

assessment, we have determined this is not a material 
issue for KDP.

Number of incidents of non-compliance with

Quantitative

Number

FB-NB-270a.3 0

industry or regulatory labeling and/or

marketing codes

Total amount of monetary losses as a result of

Quantitative

legal proceedings associated with marketing

and/or labeling practices**

Reporting 
Currency

FB-NB 270a.4 We do not report this publicly.

* Note to FB-NB-270a.1 – The entity shall disclose the applicable dietary guidelines and the methodology used to estimate advertisingimpressions.

** Note to FB-NB-270a.4 – The entity shall briefly describe the nature, context, and any corrective actions taken as a result of the monetary losses.

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

72

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX
APPENDIX

Sustainability Disclosure Topics & Accountability Metrics

Topic

Accounting Metric

Category

Unit of Measure

Code

Response

Packaging 

Lifecycle 

Management

(1) Total weight of packaging, (2) percentage made from 

Quantitative

recycled and/or renewable materials, and (3) percentage 

that is recyclable, reusable, and/or compostable

Metric tons (t), 
Percentage (%)

FB-NB-410a.1

(1) 640,663 
(2) 22% 
(3) 90%

Discussion of strategies to reduce the environmental 

impact of packaging throughout its lifecycle

Discussion  
and Analysis

N/A

FB-NB-410a.2

Product Design & Circular Economy, pages 12-14

Consumer Health & Well-being, pages 28-29

Environmental & 

Suppliers’ social and environmental responsibility 

Quantitative

Rate

FB-NB-430a.1

Social Impacts of 

audit (1) non-conformance rate and (2) associated 

Ingredient Supply 

corrected action rate for (a) major and (b) minor  

Chain

non-conformances

KDP does not have audit conformance data across all 
our 2020 priority beverage ingredient supply chains, 
which are: Coffee, Cocoa, Apple, and Corn (for High 
Fructose Corn Syrup).

The majority of our direct, Tier 1 suppliers are traders 
and processors. Since our risk assessments show that 
the major social and environmental risks are at the 
farm-level, we focus our social and environmental audits 
on upstream Ingredient suppliers (Tier 2+). In 2020, the 
scope of these audits was solely coffee and covered 82% 
of our purchases (by volume). Coffee is our top priority 
beverage ingredient for KDP and for our coffee systems 
business, which contributed 38% of 2020 net sales. 

In 2020, 82% of our purchases of green coffee by volume 
were certified to third-party environmental and social 
standards (Rainforest Alliance, UTZ Certified, Fair Trade 
USA, or Fairtrade International). By the end of 2020, 
all coffee contracted to be received going forward 
is 100% responsibly sourced. These certifications 
manage a strict system of audits and corrective action 
processes for both major and minor nonconformities. 
Any supplier with a major nonconformity, or failing a 
“Mandatory” or “Zero tolerance requirement”, will have 
their certificate cancelled if they cannot fully address 
the nonconformance within a 30-day window. Therefore 
the major non-conformance corrective action rate is 
100% because all suppliers selling to KDP must have 
a valid certificate in place. For other non-conformities, 
the acceptable non-conformance rate, corrective action 
process, and closure requirements vary by certification. 
All certifications require closure of nonconformities over 
time to ensure continuous improvement to the standard.

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

73

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX
APPENDIX

Sustainability Disclosure Topics & Accountability Metrics

Topic

Accounting Metric

Category

Unit of Measure Code

Response

Ingredient 

Sourcing

Percentage of beverage 

Quantitative

ingredients sourced from 

regions with High or Extremely 

High Baseline Water Stress

Percentage (%) 
by cost

FB-NB-440a.1

In alignment with our CDP Water disclosure, we report the % of key 
ingredients (by volume) sourced from areas of water stress, which 
corresponds very closely to reporting the % by cost. In 2020, the data  
was as follows:

List of priority beverage 

ingredients and description 

Discussion  
and Analysis

N/A

FB-NB-440a.2

of sourcing risks due to 

environmental and social 

considerations

Coffee: 0% 
Fresh apple: 0% 
Corn (for high fructose corn syrup): 0%  

We use Maplecroft Risk Data to assess our ingredients based on 
Environmental and Social Risk Factors. We consider risk level, volume 
purchased, KDP influence, and other factors to determine the prioritization 
of our ingredients. Our 2020 priority beverage ingredients are: Coffee, Cocoa, 
Apple, and Corn.

For Coffee, our primary risks are labor conditions and climate change.  
We manage these risks by purchasing 100% of our coffee via a credible 
sourcing program that aligns with our company Supplier Code of Conduct  
and our strict environmental, social, and governance criteria. Through 2020, 
these programs included Rainforest Alliance, Fair Trade USA, Fairtrade 
International and UTZ Certified.

For Cocoa, our primary risks are labor conditions and deforestation.  
We will manage these risks by purchasing cocoa via a credible sourcing 
program that aligns with our company Supplier Code of Conduct and  
our strict environmental, social, and governance criteria. Our currently 
accepted programs include Fairtrade International, Fair Trade USA,  
Rainforest Alliance and Utz with first certified shipments arriving in 2021.

For our other identified priority inputs, our risks range from pesticide use 
and other environmental impacts (on farm) and labor conditions (on farm 
and in factories). Our strategies to manage these risks via engagements 
with upstream suppliers are in development, prioritizing Apple and Corn 
for 2021. Nonetheless, KDP’s Supplier Code of Conduct outlines social and 
environmental expectations for the Company’s suppliers. Our most important 
suppliers (Tier 1 and some Tier 2) are asked annually to commit to following 
the KDP Supplier Code of Conduct.  

Supply Chain, pages 20-26 
KDP Modern Slavery Statement

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

74

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX
APPENDIX

Sustainability Disclosure Topics & Accountability Metrics

Topic

Accounting Metric

Category

Unit of Measure Code

Response

Ingredient 

Sourcing

Percentage of food 

Quantitative

ingredients sourced that 

are certified to third-party 

environmental and/or social 

standards, and percentages 

by standard

Percentage (%) 
by cost

FB-PH-430a.1

Coffee is our top priority beverage ingredient for KDP and for our coffee systems 
business, which contributed 38% of 2020 net sales. During 2020, 82% of our 
purchases of green coffee (by volume; % cost not disclosed due to confidentiality 
constraints) were responsibly sourced through third party sourcing programs, and 
by the end of 2020, all coffee contracted to be received going forward is 100% 
responsibly sourced. KDP does not disclose our percentages by standard due to 
confidentiality constraints. 

Supply Chain, pages 20-26

Active Metric

Topic

Category

Unit of Measure Code

Response

Number of production facilities

Quantitative

Number

FB-NB-000.B

17 owned; 14 leased

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

75

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX
APPENDIX

2020 Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures Index

Given the immense affect climate change poses for business, now and in the future, the 

Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) was 

established to help identify the information needed by investors, lenders, and insurance 

underwriters to appropriately assess and price climate-related risks and opportunities. In 

alignment with the TCFD recommendations, the following index provides links to KDP’s key 

disclosures on climate change, including our CDP climate change response and this current 

2020 Corporate Responsibility Report.

TCFD Metrics

Response

Describe the board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities.

2020 CDP Climate Submission (FY 2019 Reporting): C1.1, C1.1a, C1.1b

Climate, Emissions & Energy, pages 18-19

Governance, pages 41-44

Governance 

Describe management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related risks 

2020 CDP Climate Submission (FY 2019 Reporting): C1.2, C1.2a, C1.3a

and opportunities.

Climate, Emissions & Energy, pages 18-19

Governance, pages 41-44

Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organization has 

2020 CDP Climate Submission (FY 2019 Reporting): C2.1, C2.2, C2.3, C2.4

identified over the short, medium, and long term.

2020 Form 10-K, Part 1, Item IA, pages 17-18

Our Corporate Responsibility Strategy, page 6

Climate, Emissions & Energy, pages 18-19

Strategy

organization’s business, strategy, and financial planning.

Our Corporate Responsibility Strategy, page 6 

Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the 

2020 CDP Climate Submission (FY 2019 Reporting): C2.3a, C2.4a, C3.1, C3.1d, C3.1e

Climate, Emissions & Energy, pages 18-19

Describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking into consideration 

2020 CDP Climate Submission (FY 2019 Reporting): C3.1a, C3.1c

different climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenario.

Our Corporate Responsibility Strategy, page 6

Climate, Emissions & Energy, pages 18-19

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

76

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX
APPENDIX

TCFD Metrics

Response

Describe the organization’s processes for identifying and assessing  

2020 CDP Climate Submission (FY 2019 Reporting): C2.1, C2.2, C2.2a

climate-related risks.

Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality, page 8

Climate, Emissions & Energy, pages 18-19

Risk  

Management 

Describe the organization’s processes for managing climate-related risks.

2020 CDP Climate Submission (FY 2019 Reporting): C2.1, C2.2, C12.1a

Climate, Emissions & Energy, pages 18-19

Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and managing climate-

2020 CDP Climate Submission (FY 2019 Reporting): C2.1, C2.2, C2.2a, C2.3a 

related risks are integrated into the organization’s overall risk management.

Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality, page 8

Climate, Emissions & Energy, pages 18-19

Disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess climate-related risks 

2020 CDP Climate Submission (FY 2019 Reporting): C2.2, C4.2a, C4.2b

and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk management process.

Climate, Emissions & Energy, pages 18-19

Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and if appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) 

2020 CDP Climate Submission (FY 2019 Reporting): C4.1b, C6 C-FB6.6a

emissions, and the related risks.

Climate, Emissions & Energy, pages 18-19

Data Summary, pages 45-51

SASB Index, pages 71-75

Metrics and 

Targets 

Describe the targets used by the organization to manage climate-related risks 

2020 CDP Climate Submission (FY 2019 Reporting): C4.1, C4.2

and opportunities and performance against targets.

Climate, Emissions & Energy, pages 18-19

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

77

OVERVIEW

ENVIRONMENT

SUPPLY CHAIN

HEALTH & WELL-BEING

PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES

GOVERNANCE

APPENDIX
APPENDIX

Footnotes

1.  Based on volume comparison with 2019 for U.S., Canada and Mexico

2.  Based on 2020 U.S. K-Mini brewer sales with PCR material substitution [vs. original K-Mini material design]

3.  How2Recycle® program downgrades the recyclability of certain plastic packaging

4.  Smalley, M. (2020, February 14), Katherine Lugar on Every Bottle Back initiative: “[We] estimate that about 9 million 

households will have improved access to recycling as a result of Every Bottle Back, which could lead to a 20 percent 
increase in the amount of PET recycling over what’s currently done.” Recycling Today

5.  By 2024

6. 

In-scope suppliers for the 2020 target are our Alliance and Strategic Appliances suppliers, according to the supplier 
prioritization criteria of KDP’s Supplier Performance Management Program. These include our most important 
appliance, finished goods, component, accessory and packaging suppliers

7. 

Includes all owned, licensed and partner beverage brands, excludes private label

8.  U.S. Food and Drug Administration definition of “low calorie”, Code of Federal Regulations, Title 21

9.  European Commission: “A food product that together with its basic nutritional impact has a beneficial effect on one 
or more functions of the human organism either improving the general physical conditions or/and decreasing the 
risk of the evolution of disease.” Orrù S, et al. Nutrients. 2018 

10. 

Institute of Medicine (2005) and the World Health Organization (2003), water is an essential nutrient

11.  Drewnowski A, et. al. Nutr Rev. 2019 ; Dietary Guidelines for Americans 2020-2025

12.  The baseline for the Eastern LA and Little Rock communities is 2014, while Montgomery-Lowndes, Mississippi Delta 

and Bronx-Brooklyn communities have a 2015 baseline

13.  Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Department of Labor, Survey of Occupational Injuries and Illnesses, in cooperation 

with participating state agencies (modified 2020, November 14). Injuries, Illnesses, and Fatalities

14.  A correction to our 2020 data resulted in a revision to this figure as previously reported in our 2019 Corporate 

Responsibility report

15.  Women’s Sports Foundation

All brands owned by their respective trademark owners. All rights reserved.

2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

78

6425 Hall of Fame Lane, Frisco, TX 75034

53 South Avenue, Burlington, MA 01803

keurigdrpepper.com

