CORPORATE SOCIAL 
RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

Environment  •  Social  •  Governance

NYSE: LCII

2

INTRODUCTIONENVIRONMENTGOVERNANCESOCIALOTHERTABLE OF CONTENTS

2021 CSR REPORT

COMPANY OVERVIEW

CEO LETTER

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MESSAGE

COMPANY PROFILE

OUR ESG JOURNEY

REDUCING OUR TRACE

OUR APPROACH

OPERATIONAL DATA 

CASE STUDY

LIPPERT SOCIAL IMPACT

OUR PEOPLE 

HEALTH & SAFETY

CASE STUDY

OUR COMMUNITIES 

CASE STUDY

STEERING OUR STRUCTURE

SNAPSHOT

BOARD OVERSIGHT

CASE STUDY

RESOURCES

ABOUT THIS REPORT

AWARDS & RECOGNITION

CURRENT POLICIES

SASB TABLE 

4

5

6

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

17

17

18

19

20

21

22

22

23

23

23

24

25

3

INTRODUCTIONENVIRONMENTGOVERNANCESOCIALOTHER 
A MESSAGE 
FROM OUR 
CEO

At Lippert, we adopted a culture tag line in 2016 that 
“Everyone Matters”. Our leadership programs have 
revolutionized team member retention, improving retention 
by over 75 percentage points, creating a Lippert culture 
that is nimble and adaptable to the rapidly changing 
times and business environments. As we joined our team 
members, business partners, and communities in response 
to the global COVID-19 pandemic, these cultural initiatives 
proved valuable. We cared for the physical and mental 
health of our team members and their family members 
while adjusting to accommodate an unprecedented 
consumer shift to the outdoors. Our Lippert teams lived  
out our values and a culture of caring while registering 
record growth. Lippert has been more successful 
than many other peers in the cultural and workforce 
transformation because we have put real resources  
behind culture, leadership, and philanthropy.

Lippert is a rapidly expanding business. Our increasing 
ESG focus supports more responsible growth and 
underscores our commitment to being the corporate 
partner of choice.

Jason D. Lippert  
President & Chief Executive Officer

LIPPERT STAKEHOLDERS,

Welcome to our inaugural corporate social responsibility 
report, a milestone for Lippert. Since our inception in 1956, 
we have strived to be not only a strong manufacturing 
partner to our customers, but a good corporate partner 
to our team members, our community, environment, 
and customers. This report serves as our first formal, 
comprehensive reporting of these efforts.

Lippert products enable millions of outdoor enthusiasts and 
consumers to experience and connect with adventure and 
with nature. Innovation remains at the center of everything 
we do. As a result, we are evolving products to provide the 
control, connectivity, and comfort customers want in their 
exploration. Every technological and design improvement is 
rooted in bettering the lives of people inside and outside of 
our walls. 

Keeping the environment top of mind in our outdoor 
recreation industry is a key business imperative. We 
recognize and embrace the increasing importance 
of environmental, social, and governance (ESG) 
considerations to both communities in which we operate, 
and to all our stakeholders. The data in this report begins 
a transition to look more closely and completely at our 
business and impact in these areas. In recent years, we 
have made progress expanding board oversight, increasing 
board diversity, creating initiatives bolstering team 
member health and well-being, and adding community 
service objectives to our strategic plan. We are in the early 
stages of adopting standardized disclosures to ensure we 
communicate our efforts and remain accountable to these 
goals. To date, the implementation of these efforts  
is beginning to deliver results.

4

INTRODUCTIONENVIRONMENTGOVERNANCESOCIALOTHERA MESSAGE 

FROM OUR 

CEO

1.  Tracy D. Graham 

Chairman, Lippert Board of Directors 
and CEO and Managing Principal of: 
Graham-Allen Partners 

2.  Frank J. Crespo 

Former Senior VP and Chief Supply 
Chain Officer of Indigo Agriculture; 
Retired VP and Chief Procurement 
Officer of Caterpillar, Inc.

3.  Brendan J. Deely 

President and Chief Executive  
Officer of Banner Solutions

4.  Ronald J. Fenech 

Founding Partner, Grand Design 
Recreational Vehicle Co.

5.  James F. Gero 

Private Investor

6.  Virginia L. Henkels 

Chief Financial Officer and Secretary 
of Empowerment & Inclusion Capital 1 
Corp.; Retired Chief Financial Officer 
of Swift Transportation Company

7.  Jason D. Lippert 

President and Chief Executive Officer 
of LCI Industries

8.  Stephanie Mains 

Consultant at SK Mains 
Consulting, LLC and CEO of LSC 
Communications, MCL, LLC; Former 
GE Executive

9.  Kieran M O’Sullivan 

President, Chief Executive Officer 
and Chairman of the Board of CTS 
Corporation

10.  David A. Reed 

President of a privately-held family 
investment management company

11.  John A. Sirpilla 

Founder and Chief Executive Officer  
of Encourage LLC

BOARD MESSAGE 

1

5

9

2

6

3

7

4

8

10

11

LIPPERT STAKEHOLDERS, 

On behalf of Lippert’s Board of Directors, we are proud of the judicious steps 
Lippert has taken toward enhancing the Company’s environmental, social, and 
governance practices. We believe our developing ESG plans will build a strong 
future for Lippert, our team members, and our communities. 

Lippert’s inaugural corporate social responsibility report marks a critical 
inflection point in our journey to not only enhance our efforts but be held 
accountable for them. As a Board, we are committed to oversight through  
our Corporate Governance, Nominating, and Sustainability Committee, one  
of our five standing committees.

We pledge to continue regular touchpoints with the investment community  
to inform on our Company’s practices, while at the same time, seeking input  
on ESG matters at hand. Most recently, these productive exchanges have 
resulted in changes including updated policies, a comprehensive new  
executive compensation package, and an additional Board member with  
a diverse perspective. 

We look forward to continued ESG reporting and an active engagement with 
Lippert executives and investors.

Tracy D. Graham 
Chairman, Lippert Board of Directors

5

INTRODUCTIONENVIRONMENTGOVERNANCESOCIALOTHERLippert is a leading, global manufacturer and supplier of highly engineered products and customized solutions, dedicated 

to shaping, growing, and bettering the RV, marine, automotive, commercial vehicle and building products industries. We 

combine our strategic manufacturing capabilities with the power of our winning team culture to deliver unrivaled Customer 

Service, award-winning Innovation, and premium products to every customer we do business with.

COMPANY PROFILE

Lippert® is a leading, global manufacturer and supplier of highly engineered products and customized 
solutions dedicated to shaping, growing, and bettering the RV, marine, automotive, commercial 
vehicle, and building products industries, and their adjacent markets. Lippert also serves a broad 
array of aftermarket segments, supplying best-in-class products designed to enhance recreational 
pursuits, both on the road and on the water.

EAST ASIA

NORTH
AMERICA 

CONTINENTS NOT TO SCALE. LOCATIONS AS OF 11/30/2021.

$2.8

BILLION
IN ANNUAL 
SALES*

140+

FACILITIES*

In 17 states, Canada,  
the United Kingdom, Ireland, 
Italy, Germany, the Netherlands, 
Tunisia, India, Mexico, Germany,  
Hong Kong, and China

*Trailing Twelve Months (12/31/20) 

*As of 11/30/2021

EUROPE

AFRICA

13,500+ 

Team Members Strong*
*As of 11/30/2021

HISTORY OF  
LIPPERT COMPONENTS

Founded in 1956 by Larry Lippert,  
the company began as a galvanized 
and aluminum roofing business for the 
manufactured housing industry. Today, 
Lippert has evolved into an industry leader 
of premium components to the recreational 
vehicle, marine, automotive, commercial 
vehicle and building products industries.

6

1956

1978

2003

Larry Lippert 
CEO & Founder 
1959 - 1978

Doug Lippert 
CEO 
1978 - 2003

Jason Lippert 
CEO 
2003 - Present*

*Jason Lippert was appointed the CEO of LCI Industries in May 2013.

INTRODUCTIONENVIRONMENTGOVERNANCESOCIALOTHERBUSINESS OVERVIEW

Markets Served

RV & UTILITY 
TRAILER PRODUCTS

MARINE

AFTERMARKET

TRANSPORTATION

BUILDING 
PRODUCTS

EUROPEAN 
MARKETPLACE

RV
RV

Marine
MARINE

Automotive
AUTOMOTIVE

Manufacturing Capabilities

FURNITURE

GLASS PROCESSING

COATINGS

ELECTRONICS

LAMINATIONS

AXLES

MATTRESSES

METAL FABRICATION
& WELDING

PLASTIC MOLDING

POWER & 
MOTION SYSTEMS

7

INTRODUCTIONENVIRONMENTGOVERNANCESOCIALOTHERCOMPANY OVERVIEW

Our vision is to be “A Force for Good in the World.” 
Since 2016, Lippert has focused on designing a 
cultural foundation from which our success is 
based, and it stems from one simple driving force: 
At Lippert, Everyone Matters. From the shop floor 
to the C-suite, we simply care about people. Our 
culture is grounded in our five core values that we 
practice in our business every day. 

EVERYONE 
MATTERS

WHY WE
EMPHASIZE
CULTURE

EFFICIENCY

Longer tenured team 
members make Lippert 
better, improving work flow, 
processes and efficiencies.

QUALITY

Lippert veterans know their 
product! Longer term team 
members will produce 
better, more consistent 
products that will make the 
end consumer happier.

INNOVATION

Loving your job typically 
means you stay at the job, 
and the longer you stay the 
more likely you will innovate 
products and processes.

HEALTH

A positive working 
environment where you feel 
safe will lead to less stress 
and anxiety, which happens 
to be the leading cause of 
chronic illness in the U.S.

SAFETY

The longer you stay at a job, the 
more familiar you get with that 
job and this will ultimately help 
avoid work safety hazards.

RELATIONSHIPS

You tend to treat others as you are 
treated. Being treated well at work will 
translate to better relationships outside 
of work, especially at home.

Lippert has found the right combination of alignment between innovative engineering and the power of a 
winning culture. Our workforce is our largest engine for growth, and we are focused on empowering our 
leadership and equipping our next generation of leaders within Lippert to drive innovation and performance 
over the long term. Our success is shared with team members, customers, and shareholders. 

8

INTRODUCTIONENVIRONMENTGOVERNANCESOCIALOTHEROUR ESG JOURNEY

The Lippert approach to sustainability is guided by our passion to protect and invest in the communities 
that we call home. We are preparing a comprehensive inventory of material information related to 
environmental, social, and governance (ESG) practices. This report is simply the beginning of that 
process. Our leadership team will continually improve ESG reporting, collecting more relevant data, 
and providing even more insights to our valued stakeholders in the next versions of this CSR Report.

We are beginning to build a structure that will properly 
reflect how ESG is integrated into Lippert’s strategy. For 
example, you will find data on environmental and social 
topics reported for the first time under the Sustainability 
Accounting Standards Board (SASB) framework, newly 
built policies, and improvements regarding sustainability 
oversight at the Board of Directors. 

Lippert also has a long-standing commitment to listening 
and engaging with our stakeholders on a regular basis, 
including surveys to collect feedback from our team 
members, support of the communities where we live and 
work, innovative activities for listening and learning from our 
consumers and during in- and off-season engagements with 
our top shareholders.

COVID-19 RESPONSE

In the face of extraordinary circumstances, the executive 
leadership team led Lippert through a tremendous period 
of uncertainty in 2020. The global COVID-19 pandemic 
disrupted our operations in March of 2020, with temporary 
plant suspension on a case-by-case basis in compliance 
with government mandates or due to customer closures. 
Lippert’s leadership team moved quickly to be sure medical 
premiums were covered for furloughed team members and 
designed a playbook to guide the reopening of production. 
Top executives took a temporary reduction in base salaries. 
When it was time to return to production beginning in May 
2020, the playbook led a focused opening that protected 
the health and safety of team members, continued pay for 
team members who did get the virus, introduced a mobile 
COVID-19 testing site for production team members, and 
offered team members the opportunity to be part of a 
vaccine trial group. 

Lippert culture really shined when, in 2020, our team 
member monetary donations transitioned into an emergency 
fund to support Lippert families suffering the most during 

the pandemic. The fund supported those in the Lippert 
community facing financial difficultly or dealing with the 
medical challenges presented during such a tough moment 
of history. Team members helping one another resonated 
so thoroughly at Lippert, that the emergency fund was 
transformed into a formal foundation, the Lippert Cares 
Foundation. Looking forward, the Lippert Cares Foundation 
will continue to lift our team members.

9
9

INTRODUCTIONENVIRONMENTGOVERNANCESOCIALOTHERENVIRONMENTAL 

REDUCING  
OUR TRACE  

10

INTRODUCTIONENVIRONMENTGOVERNANCESOCIALOTHEROUR APPROACH

The outdoor recreation industry relies on 
enjoyment of a healthy natural environment. 
Lippert approaches environmental sustainability 
guided by our passion to protect and support 
the communities that we call home. Our team 
members embrace initiatives that reduce our 
impact. As a company, we invest in process 
efficiency, advanced machinery, and increasingly 
eco-friendly energy resources to provide a 
healthier environment. 

Lippert aims to normalize our data collection aligned with 
industry standards that better communicate our ESG activities 
to our stakeholders. Lippert is amid developing a more 
robust environmental consideration. Data relayed in this 
report will reflect that we are in the preliminary stages of this 
process. Where appropriate, data has been stated in our first 
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) data table 
in the Resources section later in this report. 

Lippert started with a look at our business operations. In 
building our tracking system, pilots experienced varied times 
and therefore periods of data reporting also vary. Please note 
the scope of data in footnotes. Moving forward, our goal is to 
present our environmental data in a more uniform scope.

11

INTRODUCTIONENVIRONMENTGOVERNANCESOCIALOTHEROPERATIONAL DATA

Lippert supports the health of our team members, the 
community and the environment that hosts our facilities. 
When looking at our operations, it is beyond the walls of the 
facilities to include the same appreciation our customers 
have for the outdoors. 

Our environmental tracking currently falls under the 
Environmental Health & Safety team. The Lippert EHS Team 
is composed of approximately 40 EHS team members that 
work hand-in-hand with site-level leadership to assure goals 
and objectives are defined and achieved. The overarching 
objective is a dedication to maintaining a safe working 
environment and reducing the environmental impact in 
our local and global communities.  Lippert maintains an 
environmental management system (EMS)  that is largely 
congruent with internationally recognized standards. Lippert 
has one facility that is currently third-party certified in 
alignment with ISO 14001 EMS with plans to add facilities in 
the future. 

Lippert began targeting the 63 manufacturing facilities in the 
U.S. with a focus on electricity and natural gas consumption. 
To date, Lippert has collected against 70% of this target. 

Reducing our Trace references a drive to lessen our 
impact on the environment, a direct benefit to the local 
communities surrounding our facilities. Outside of typical 
Phase 1 Environmental Site Assessments conducted 
at all leased and purchased real property, we currently 
translate that into two primary categories: trash to landfill 
and materials recycling. At Lippert, we are tracking our 
waste in a contained facility set with an intention to expand 
more broadly. Data presented below is from our facilities in 
Indiana and will provide guidance to tracking systems as 
reporting expands.

WASTE**

Trash to Landfill: 12,434.59 tons

*Calendar Year 2020
**45 facilities located in Elkhart, LaGrange, and Saint Joseph counties, Indiana

MATERIALS RECYCLING*

ENERGY CONSUMPTION*

Aluminum: 6,650 tons

Electricity: 493,181.50 GJ

Cardboard: 1,787 tons

Natural Gas: 739,300.76 GJ

Glass: 88.34 tons

Total: 1,232,482.26 GJ**

Office Paper: 3.95 tons

*July 2020 - June 2021

Plastics: 1,154.26 tons

Steel: 40,100 tons

Wood: 18,676.36 tons

*  This data was collected from different locations and during different timeframes as we 
build our tracking systems moving forward. Please see the SASB Table in the “References” 
section for details on timing and location for each line.

Lippert also looks to improvements in its materials sourcing. Lippert has recently adopted its Conflict Minerals Policy to 
underscore responsible purchasing. Beyond policy, there are examples within our operations processing that have lessened 
our emission and energy impact. One case was a change in process: by powder-coating our products instead of using more 
harmful coatings, Lippert has eliminated nearly 400 tons of dangerous Volatile Organic Compounds every year.1 Additionally, 
Lippert leverages a team of lean manufacturing specialists that focus on process improvement to improve organization, 
increase efficiency, and reduce waste.  

1 Annualized calculation based on number of frames produced comparing powder coat to compliant 3.5 lbs. VOC/gal. 

12

INTRODUCTIONENVIRONMENTGOVERNANCESOCIALOTHERENVIRONMENTAL 

INTRODUCTION

ENVIRONMENT

SOCIAL

GOVERNANCE

OTHER

CASE STUDY 
LIPPERT DEPLOYS SOLAR AT SEVEN FACILITIES

Lippert is producing the energy needed for operations through safe, renewable, and energy-friendly alternatives at a series 
of its facilities. Seven operations have been replacing conventional energy sources with solar energy, saving the company 
over 1.9M solar KW hours in 2021 through November. The lifetime of these solar solutions has produced 8.75GwH. The solar 
energy we are producing is the equivalent of greenhouse gas emissions equivalent to 1,349 passenger vehicles driven for a 
year or CO2 emissions from 697,758 gallons of gasoline consumed.1

1Reference created with calculator from US EPA

Moving forward, Lippert plans to expand its collection, analysis and monitoring of environmental data to 
provide a clearer picture of how Lippert manages material environmental risks. In 2022, we will be diligently 
working to: 

• 

Improve data in SASB framework disclosure 

•  Expand reporting to include Scope 1 & Scope 2 emissions source data, such as fleet fuel (gasoline, diesel), 

propane, refrigerants, waste gasses, etc.

• 

Incorporate solar generation into the annual emissions calculation

•  Reach 100% of initial target to include all U.S. manufacturing facilities within scope of the next report 

•  Begin collection of water data across all facilities 

•  Expand waste and recycling data collection based on initial facility model 

•  Set goals and timelines for incorporating global facilities

•  Determine a process for incorporating merger and acquisition data into a report 

•  Evaluate additional reporting frameworks

•  Add solar arrays totaling approximately 2.5 MWh

As we work to Reduce our Trace, Lippert is committed to understanding  
and improving its environmental sustainability impact.

13

INTRODUCTIONENVIRONMENTGOVERNANCESOCIALOTHERSOCIAL

LIPPERT 
SOCIAL IMPACT

14

INTRODUCTIONENVIRONMENTGOVERNANCESOCIALOTHEROUR PEOPLE

POSITIVE ATTITUDE

MOTIVATOR

PASSIONATE
ABOUT WINNING

HUMBLE/
COACHABLE

HONESTY,
INTEGRITY,
CANDOR

CORE VALUES
& LEADER
QUALITIES

COURAGEOUS

TEAM PLAY
WITH TRUST

SERVANT
LEADER

CARING
ABOUT PEOPLE

EFFECTIVE
COMMUNICATOR

OUR TEAM MEMBERS ARE THE  
FOUNDATION OF LIPPERT’S SUCCESS.

In 2016, we set out on a journey to become the employer of 
choice in Elkhart County, IN. In 2017, the Everybody Matters 
program created a series of actions designed to simply 
treat people better in the workplace and to improve the 
lives of Lippert employees. Changing the work culture is a 
continuous mission and the evolution has been significant. 
Today, Everybody Matters permeates throughout the 
organization globally and is guided by a Leadership & 
Cultural Development (LCD) Team. The LCD Team focuses 
on leadership development, personal and professional 
development, training, and corporate and community 
impact. Cultural programs have created a cadre of team 
leaders reaching across all locations ensuring the tenets of 
our culture reach all employees. Our LCD Team supports 
leaders and their team members across the Company to 
develop actions plans and goals focused on personal and 
professional development.

We could not consistently deliver results without the 
dedication, strength, and guidance of our leaders across the 
Company. It is a concerted effort to upkeep and continually 
improve Lippert culture. We have 26 dedicated instructors, 
who focused more than 36,900 hours of coaching for our 
team members in more than 119,000 interactions designed 
to support the health of our Lippert culture. Over time, we 
have seen clear results. Our attrition rate had dropped from 
120% ten years ago to as low as 28% in 2019 and 31% in 
2021. Additionally, our strong cultural underpinning has 
shown success in reducing turnover, improving safety and 
service, and better efficiency. These all come from people 
who are happier and feeling more appreciated.

15

LIPPERT 

SOCIAL IMPACT

INTRODUCTIONENVIRONMENTGOVERNANCESOCIALOTHEROUR PEOPLE

This leadership system acts as a backbone 
to many other initiatives, such as our team 
member engagement survey. 

Twice a year, we leverage Emplify employee interaction 
tools to measure and evaluate engagement drivers 
and build specific action plans in response to survey 
results solidifying the feedback toward continuous 
improvement. This year, our November survey had a 
94% response rate with an overall Emplify score of 75, 
noting 74% of team members as engaged, which is 
above average in industry. Our survey reinforces key 
issues such as professional development, psychological 
safety, role clarity, and values and provides great 
insights in helping Lippert align purpose, performance, 
and passion.

As the growth of our organization continues, the need 
for diverse leadership abilities and a strong company 
culture is ever-increasing. Our strong culture creates and 
maintains a workplace in which all team members have 
opportunity to participate and contribute to the success of 
the business and are valued for their skills, experiences, and 
unique perspectives. Our Equal Employment Opportunity 
policy and the way we do business embody  
this commitment.  

Emplify Engagment Survey

We partner with a third-party survey company to 
ensure Team member confidentiality. Results are 
only reported for areas with 5 or more responses.

Annual Engagement goal:

•  Overall Emplify score of 75 
•  80% of all team members “Engaged” 
•  1-point increase in Role Clarity driver

94% 74.74%

Response Rate 
for Last Survey

Team Members 
"Engaged"

While diversity is essential in our business practice, 
inclusion and belonging are very important as well. Diversity 
reflects the differences we have in our workforce, inclusion 
is defined as how we as team members include others, 
and belonging is how we feel as members of our Lippert 
community. We are committed to fostering an environment 
where all three are expected.

In 2018, Lippert developed Dream Achiever. 

Its mission is to live a more engaged and intentional 
life through performance coaching and community 
connection to help transform business and society. For 
team members, this translates into a six-month journey 
of personal coaching that emphasizes developing 
a productive mindset. The process connects team 
members for the purpose of developing meaningful 
relationships among teammates and to create a support 
system for achieving personal and professional goals.

“The impact of the Dream Achiever 
program has led our team members 
to live more joyful, engaged personal 
lives, while seeing them more 
aligned, committed, and productive 
as team members at Lippert.” 

– Toby Crowley, GM

16

Team members are reporting the program 
making a difference in their lives:

8,536
159
200
258
53

Hours dedicated to 1:1  
Dream Achiever sessions

Achieved Family  
Improvement Goals

Achieved Professional  
Growth Goals

Achieved Health  
Mindset Goals

Achieved Educational  
Growth Goals 

INTRODUCTIONENVIRONMENTGOVERNANCESOCIALOTHERHEALTH & SAFETY

Lippert maintains a safe and healthy workplace certainly in compliance with all applicable laws and 
regulations regarding workplace safety. We want to continuously strive to do better and fulfill our 
long-term vision of producing a working environment that is as free of risks and hazards as possible. 
To continually reach for this goal, our company-wide Facility Safety Score (FSS) is now being used 
to continue removing risk and hazards from the workplace. Key components of this score focus on 
corrective action, hazard recognition, and supervisor-led safety training. Team members are driven 
by the scoring, helping Lippert continually improve its overall safety record.

Lippert’s Plant 50 is leading the way. Partnering with the 
Indiana Department of Occupational Health and Safety and 
its Voluntary Protection Program (VPP), the plant announced 
that it received Merit Certification through 2022. Recognition 
as a VPP Merit site is a testament to excellence in all areas 
of the health management system. While the certification 
demonstrates our dedication to safety, VPP is also of great 
benefit to Lippert team members specifically. It helps 
increase employee involvement and engagement; reduces 
injuries through improved hazard recognition, prevention, 
and control; and improves employee training, which 
enhances overall quality. Team members are also equipped 
with guidelines and employee involvement opportunities  
so they can do their part and become personally involved  
in the program.

Our definition of safety quickly expanded as we faced the 
challenges presented by COVID-19. Our dedicated and 
caring teams rose the occasion in many ways. Lippert 
swiftly implemented travel bans for employees in March 
2020. Production was temporarily suspended from select 
facilities across North America and Europe. Many of 
Lippert’s business operations returned to production in May 
as the government deemed their work as “essential.” Our 
teams went to great lengths to implement heightened health 
and safety measures as they screened team members for 
potential symptoms, conducted extensive disinfecting of 
workspaces, and practiced social distancing restrictions 
in production. These measures were placed against active 
production that recorded a record growth as consumers 
shifted to enjoying outdoor recreation.

CASE STUDY  
TAKE A STEP HEALTH & WELLNESS PROGRAM

The Lippert culture works to provide a caring environment 
for team members, considering the individual as a whole, 
which is critical to our success. Our Take the Step program 
launched with a three-fold structure to educate, engage, 
and empower team members to motivate themselves 
to take baby steps toward better health. The program 
provides nutrition resources, movement programs, team 
challenges, preventative screens, and an increased focus 
on mental health. 

Our October 2021 launch of the Lippert Life app brought 
Take a Step to a new level of employee engagement. 
Nearly 5,000 team members are active users and our 
recent walking challenge prompted over 1.1 million steps. 
Lippert leaders hope to get everyone started on a new, 
unified journey toward optimum health, making our teams 
mentally sharper, feeling better, and becoming the best 
versions of themselves. 

17
17

INTRODUCTIONENVIRONMENTGOVERNANCESOCIALOTHEROUR COMMUNITIES

Lippert exists because  
our consumers enjoy the  
outdoor recreation community. 
Our Lippert culture naturally  
integrates community caring  
into our work and our  
contribution to our neighbors.  
We strive to create meaningful 
change and inspire a culture  
of giving identifying where 
company resources, time and 
talents meet the needs of our 
communities. Lippert reaches  
into the community with 
philanthropic donation and by 
rolling up our sleeves and  
donating time and effort.

Through monetary donations, product donations, and 
company-wide fundraising events, we annually donate 
more than one million dollars to charitable organizations in 
one of our four focus areas: Children & Families in Need, 
Educational Programs, Community Health & Wellness, and 
Lippert Members in Crisis or Illness.

with having the best equipment to move them from barn to 
horse show or breeding barn and then home safely. Lippert 
products focus on innovation and quality to drive forward a 
continued focus on safety.

We share a love of the outdoors with our consumers. 
So, when it came time to connect with consumers, we 
meet them where we are. Our Lippert Scouts program 
has created social media and experiential engagement 
that allows us to learn from our consumers and ignites 
improvement and innovation in our products.

When COVID-19 began hitting our community hospitals 
requiring healthcare workers to make personal sacrifice 
for the greater community, we were moved and wanted to 
support this special 
group. Lippert 
partnered with Goshen 
Health Foundation, 
The Foundation of 
Saint Joseph Health 
System, and Beacon 
Health Foundation to 
provide support for 
frontline healthcare 
workers at each of 
three area hospitals 
by providing mental 
health professionals. 

Safeguarding healthcare workers’ mental health while 
they face the day-to-day effect to this pandemic is 
unquestionably a top priority. Lippert is dedicated to doing 
its part to ensure that hospitals have the resources they 
need to support the incredible women and men in our 
healthcare community.

Outside of monetary donation, our teams have set a goal to 
connect with our communities through more than 100,000 
volunteer hours each year. Since its inception in 2017, the 
100,000 Hour Initiative reached that goal through 2019. 
Although the COVID-19 pandemic prevented us from 
reaching our 100,000 hours goal in 2020, our creative team 
members were still 
able to volunteer 
over 67,000 hours. 
Looking back across 
this program, our 
team members and 
their family members 
have donated 500,000 
hours to more than 
2,000 non-profit 
organizations.

“Our Unity Gardens create access to fresh 
healthy food for our community, and it is only 
with the help of volunteers and community 
partners like Lippert that this dignified free food 
model has flourished for over 12 years! Thank 
you, Lippert Components Inc!” 

– Sara Stewart | Executive Director Unity Gardens Inc. 

Our community 
outreach stretches 
beyond where we live, work, and play. Our brands connect 
with organizations that align with partner and consumer 
organization and provide product insights. For example, 
CURT/Ranch Hand partnered with the National Reined Cow 
Horse Association (NRCHA) to address their consumer 
desire for safety on the road. Protecting cow horses starts 

18

INTRODUCTIONENVIRONMENTGOVERNANCESOCIALOTHEROUR COMMUNITIES

CASE STUDY  
VOLUNTEER WEEK

Lippert community volunteerism is in its corporate Social Impact Philosophy. By July 2020, The Corporate and Community Impact 
team led its first-ever coordinated Volunteer Week. Considering the unique environment, the Company hosted a week-long array of 
socially distanced community service activity continuing its unwavering commitment to serving surrounding communities and making 
a lasting, positive impact. During Volunteering Week, 50,000 much-needed items were packed and donated to seven local nonprofits. 
Team members were given options to pack boxes, purchase items or make monetary donations. Additionally, a number of at-home 
volunteer opportunities engaged families. 

In 2021, the weeklong experience had more than 1,000 team members in Indiana together pack 7,500 packages which benefited 
nonprofits. Across the Company, divisions around the globe worked with camps, elementary schools, food banks, and homeless 
shelters toward bettering local communities. In Italy, team members worked to support a local pediatric hospice that was hosting 
children with serious illness and their family during their times of crisis. 

Volunteer Week supports Lippert’s cultural purpose; it has become part of who we are. Since launching its volunteer efforts, Lippert 
team members and their families donated 500,000 hours. It personifies Lippert’s purpose, a business that is a force for good. 

Lippert absolutely plans to continue its annual giving and volunteering goals, along with other programs 
that both support the culture of our Company and the communities where we live, work, and play. 

19

INTRODUCTIONENVIRONMENTGOVERNANCESOCIALOTHERGOVERNANCE

STEERING OUR 
STRUCTURE

20

INTRODUCTIONENVIRONMENTGOVERNANCESOCIALOTHERGOVERNANCE SNAPSHOT

BUSINESS AS A 
FORCE FOR GOOD.

11

NUMBER OF 
DIRECTORS

YES

SEPARATE 
CHAIR/CEO

YES

INDEPENDENT 
CHAIRMAN

82%

BOARD 
INDEPENDENCE

100%

COMMITTEE  
INDEPENDENCE

58

YEARS 
OLD

AVERAGE  
DIRECTOR AGE

15.6

YEARS

AVERAGE  
DIRECTOR TENURE

18%

WOMEN  
ON BOARD

21

STEERING OUR 

STRUCTURE

INTRODUCTIONENVIRONMENTGOVERNANCESOCIALOTHERBOARD OVERSIGHT

Lippert is making targeted improvements to oversight in order to properly support its ESG efforts. In 
the last five years, Lippert has been strengthening its corporate governance practices to match its 
emerging ESG activity. Lippert has made strides including updates to its policies, increased diversity  
on the Board of Directors, and the formal addition of sustainability in Board oversight. 

The Corporate Governance, Nominating, and Sustainability Committee (CGNS Committee) is one of the five standing 
committees on the Board of Directors and acts as the primary oversight for ESG management, with others contributing 
through oversight of overall strategy and risks. Lippert recently updated corporate governance and charter documents to 
ensure an appropriate level of oversight by the Board of Directors on ESG topics. The CGNS committee charter states: 

The Committee will “oversee, review, and report to the Board on a periodic basis with regards to 
sustainability and social responsibility matters, including impacts to the Company’s business and 
strategy, the Company’s public reporting on these topics, and any recommendations with respect to 
oversight and related policies.”

Additionally, the CGNS Committee will continue to consider diversity and underrepresented groups when factoring in the 
selection of future nominees, along with the paramount criteria of experience and integrity. Recent changes have increased 
ESG oversight and will have a lasting impact on Lippert’s business. 

CASE STUDY  
INVESTOR ENGAGEMENT

The Lippert Board of Directors and the executive management team see investor engagement as an essential tool for both 
informing investors about our activity and gaining input into how Lippert can improve. Over the last two years, Lippert 
conducted three targeted investor roadshows, adding ESG factors to its general discussion, and consistently reaching out to 
institutions representing approximately 70% of our outstanding shares. 

Results from attending investors revealed that most showed interest in measures taken to ensure the health and safety 
of team members in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. Investors also had an appetite for increased disclosure of ESG 
initiatives such as decarbonization, workforce demographics, and workplace safety, and many reported being pleased with 
the addition of Stephanie K. Mains to the Board of Directors.

Lippert listened and is responding. Here are a few actions taken following these roadshows: 

•  Lippert plans to increase its environmental sustainability data reporting. 

•  Lippert is releasing this report, including its first disclosure data aligned with the SASB framework. 

•  Lippert has updated policies, including its Code of Conduct, Whistleblower Policy, and Conflict Minerals Policy.

•  Lippert enhanced disclosure within the executive compensation package in response to investor feedback.

The design of the roadshows was informative and promoted action. Based on this success, Lippert is evaluating a 
permanent system for consultation with shareholder engagement at least twice per year.

Lippert views corporate governance as the solid structure on which all other  
ESG activity is built. By listening to stakeholders, Lippert will continue to evolve. 

22

INTRODUCTIONENVIRONMENTGOVERNANCESOCIALOTHERCASE STUDY  

INVESTOR ENGAGEMENT

RESOURCES

ABOUT THIS REPORT

This is Lippert’s first ESG report. Information 
in this report has a varied scope making our 
best effort to share data and timeframes to 
begin to tell our story. As we are reporting to 
date, our next ESG report will cover calendar 
year 2022 and will be released in 2023. In 
the interim, we will be updating our website 
periodically to share our ESG journey.

If you would like to provide any comment, 
please contact Lippert Investor Relations
at 574-535-1125.

AWARDS AND RECOGNITION

ISO 9001 Certified Plants

NORTH AMERICA

• Goshen, IN US (Plant 50)  
• Elkhart, IN US (Plant 72)  
• Elkhart, IN US (Plant 83)  
• Granby, Quebec CANADA (Plant 73)  
• Gaffney, SC US (Plant 74) 
• Springfield, TN US (Plant 75)  
• Tulsa, OK US (Plant 89) 
• Chesaning, MI US (Plan 96)  
• Kendallville, IN US (Plant 111)  
• Payne, OH US (Plant 112)  
• Gloversville, NY US (Plant 188)  
• Double Springs, AL US (Plant 203)

EUROPE

• San Casciano Val di Pesa ITALY (Plant  304) 
• Pontedera, Pisa ITALY (Plant 307) 
• Westbrook, Warrington UK (Plant 401)  
•  Catfield, Great Yarmouth IRELAND (Plants 402, 403)

ISO 14001 EMS

• Lippert Quebec (Plant 073)

Indiana Department of Occupational Health and Safety 
and Its Voluntary Protection Program:

• Goshen, IN (Plant 50)

23

INTRODUCTIONENVIRONMENTGOVERNANCESOCIALOTHERRESOURCES

CURRENT POLICIES (click below)

Whistleblower Policy

Insider Trading Policy

Amended and Restated By-Laws

Audit Committee Key Practices

California Supply Chain Disclosures

Code of Ethics For Senior Financial Officers of Lippert and its Subsidiaries

Compensation Committee Key Practices

Conflict Minerals Policy

Corporate Governance, Nominating, and Sustainability Committee Key Practices

Governance Principles

Guidelines for Business Conduct

Insider Trading Policy Addendum for Restricted Persons

UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 Disclosures

Policies, including those recently updated, are listed on the Lippert investor website within Governance Documents.

24

INTRODUCTIONENVIRONMENTGOVERNANCESOCIALOTHERRESOURCES

The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Table below includes disclosure 
requirements from two industry standards: “Transportation Sector: Auto Parts”, which captures 
our emphasis on recreational vehicles and marine transport, and “Consumer Goods Sector: 
Building Products and Furnishings,” as defined by SASB’s Sustainable Industry Classification 
System™ (SICS™). Except when indicated otherwise, the data presented below is related to the 
period between July 2020 and June 2021.

Topic

Accounting Metric

SASB Code

Disclosure

Energy Management

Total energy consumed, 

1. 
2.  percentage grid electricity, 
3.  percentage renewable

TR-AP-130a.1, CG-BF-130a.1

Waste Management

1. 

Total amount of waste  
from manufacturing, 

2.  percentage hazardous, 

3.  percentage recycled

TR-AP-150a.1

Product Safety

Number of recalls issued,  
total units recalled

TR-AP-250a.1

1. 1,232,482.26 1  

(Grid: 493,181.50 GJ; 
Natural Gas: 739,300.76 GJ)

2. 100%
3. 0.71% (8401.66 GJ)2

1.  Elkhart, Lagrange, and Saint Joseph counties facilities 
(Indiana) – Trash to landfill in 2020: 12,434.59 Tons3

2.  Facilities 241 Waxahachie, TX and 261 Elkhart, IN – Plastic 

from regrind: 2,293,057 lbs3

3.  Total4: 67,225 tons  

Aluminum: 6,650 tons  
Cardboard: 1,787 tons  
Glass: 88.34 tons  
Office Paper: 3.95 tons  
Plastics: 1,154.26 tons  
Steel: 40,100 tons  
Wood: 18,676.36 tons 

1.  (2020) LCI Safety Chain Hardware, Completed Quantity: 27
2.  (2020) JACYCO Suspension (North Point) Units: 1,550
3.  (2020) Heartland Mildstone Recall, Units:  117
4.  (2020) 15-002-19 3000 Series VENT, Units: 15,758
5.  (2020) (20e-074 P2K Bedlift Motor Claims: Units: 591
6.  (2021) Lippert USGC, Units: 1,446
7.  (2021) HEHR 096 6400 Series, Units: 46,281
8.  (2021) 221v-236 FR PINBOX, Units: 273
9.  (2021) FR 2016 Window Labels, Units:  8,175
10. (2021) Tracker Fish Seats USCG21MF0574, Units: 27,000

Materials Sourcing

Description of the management 
of risks associated with the use of 
critical materials

TR-AP-440a.1,

LCI Conflict Minerals Policy 

Competitive Behavior

Total amount of monetary losses 
as a result of legal proceedings 
associated with anticompetitive
behavior regulations

TR-AP-520a.1

$0, No monetary losses as a result of legal 
proceedings relating to anticompetitive behavior 
regulations in 2019.

Activity Metric

Area of Manufacturing plants

TR-AP-000.C

9,172,157 Square Meters

1 To date, Lippert has collected all electricity and natural gas consumption and cost data for 48 of the 63 facilities, equating to 70% of the total expected data. Over the course of 
the next year, Lippert will be making efforts to successfully calculate electricity and natural gas emissions for all 63 manufacturing facilities in the United States.

2 Lippert is disclosing figures for solar power generation from one facility in Indiana, but is committed to expand the collection of data regarding renewable energy from other 
locations and report accordingly in coming reports.

3Lippert is disclosing limited information on waste management but will be making efforts to report on as many facilities as possible over the next year.

4 Lippert is reporting total recycled figures, as data on the total waste withdrawn needed to calculate the percentage recycled is still incomplete at the moment. All the figures 
correspond to calendar year 2020, except for Aluminum and Steel, which are reported for July/2020 to June/2021.

• Aluminum: All facilities in US

• Cardboard: All Elkhart, LaGrange and Saint Joseph County operations

• Glass: Indiana, Alabama, Idaho Glass fabrication operations

• Office Paper: All Elkhart, LaGrange and Saint Joseph County operations

• Plastics (Recycled and Regrind): Waxahachie, TX (Plant 241) and in Elkhart, IN (Plant 261)

• Steel: All facilities in US

• Wood: All Elkhart, LaGrange and Saint Joseph County operations

25

INTRODUCTIONENVIRONMENTGOVERNANCESOCIALOTHERCopyright © 2021 Lippert Components, Inc.

All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 
distributed, transmitted, or used in any form or by any means, including 
photocopying, recording, or other electronic or mechanical methods, 
without the prior written permission of Lippert Components, Inc.

Connect with us

2021150127

