Sustainability Accounting 
Standards Board (SASB) Index 
—

SUSTAINABILITY DISCLOSURE TOPICS & ACCOUNTING METRICS—MEAT, POULTRY & DAIRY

TABLE 1. SUSTAINABILITY DISCLOSURE TOPICS & ACCOUNTING METRICS

Topic
Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions

Accounting Metric
Gross global Scope 1 emissions

2021 Response
3.83 million metric tons CO2e
ESG Data Center

Energy 
Management

Water 
Management

Discussion of long-term and short-term 
strategy or plan to manage Scope 1 
emissions, emissions reduction targets, 
and an analysis of performance against 
those targets

(1) Total energy consumed, 
(2) percentage grid electricity, 
(3) percentage renewable

(1) Total water withdrawn, 
(2) total water consumed, percentage of 
each in regions with High or Extremely 
High Baseline Water Stress

Description of water management risks 
and discussion of strategies and practices 
to mitigate those risks

Tyson Foods 2021 Sustainability Report > Working Toward 
Sustaining Natural Resources and Achieving Net Zero > Climate

(1) 64 million GJ
(2) 27%
(3) 1%
ESG Data Center

(1) 121 million m3 
(2) 121 million m3

18% in regions with High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress
ESG Data Center

Tyson Foods 2021 Sustainability Report > Working Toward 
Sustaining Natural Resources and Achieving Net Zero > Water

Number of incidents of non-compliance 
with water quality permits, standards,  
and regulations

13 for FY2021
ESG Data Center

Land Use & 
Ecological 
Impacts

Amount of animal litter and manure 
generated, percentage managed 
according to a nutrient management plan

Tysonsustainability.com > Agriculture > Land Stewardship

Percentage of pasture and grazing  
land managed to Natural Resources 
Conservation Service (NRCS) 
conservation plan criteria

Animal protein production from 
concentrated animal feeding  
operations (CAFOs)

Tysonsustainability.com > Agriculture > Land Stewardship

Farms that supply Tyson’s U.S.-based poultry operations and 
Tyson’s wholly owned subsidiaries of the Pork Group, Inc. and Cobb 
Vantress, Inc. farms would be considered concentrated animal 
feeding operations (CAFOs) as defined by the U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency. Due to lack of supply chain traceability, we are 
unable to provide a quantitative value related to the livestock and 
outside meat we procure that may be raised in CAFO production 
systems. We invite you, however, to review the Environmental and 
Agriculture sections of tysonsustainability.com to learn more about 
the environmental and animal housing and raising practices of our 
poultry and livestock supply chain partners. Additionally, our Supply 
Code of Conduct establishes the environmental and animal welfare 
expectations we have of our supply partners.

1 — TYSON FOODS — 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

SUSTAINABILITY DISCLOSURE TOPICS & ACCOUNTING METRICS—MEAT, POULTRY & DAIRY

TABLE 1. SUSTAINABILITY DISCLOSURE TOPICS & ACCOUNTING METRICS

Topic
Food Safety

Accounting Metric
Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI) audit  
(1) non-conformance rate and  
(2) associated corrective action rate for  
(a) major and (b) minor non-conformances

2021 Response
We are providing our overall audit scoring, as this provides the 
quantifiable detail of GFSI “nonconformance rate” as well as 
additional context to avoid potential misinterpretation of the data 
we are reporting. Note, SQF audits have a numerical score while 
the BRC audits have a letter rating (AA, A, B, C, etc.).
Of the SQF-audited facilities in 2021:  
100% scored 85% or higher; 
90% scored 90% or higher; and  
74% scored 95% or higher. 
Of the BRC-audited facilities in 2020: 
100% scored a “B” or higher; 
97% scored an “A” or higher; and 
68% scored the highest “AA” rating.
For both the SQF and BRC audits, a 100% corrective action rate 
(including auditor review and approval) is required in order to 
close out the audit and maintain GFSI certification

Percentage of supplier facilities certified to 
a Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI) food 
safety certification program

97.30%
Tysonsustainability.com > People > Consumers > Ingredient Sourcing
Tysonsustainability.com > People > Consumers > Food Safety & Audits

(1) Number of recalls issued and  
(2) total weight of products recalled

USDA-FSIS Class 1 Recall–Dexter MO [7/3/21]; 8.5MM Lbs  
Listeria Monocytogenes: FDA Class 3 Recall–Holcomb KS  
[3/22/21]; 145000 lbs for beef tallow for animal feed use for 
insoluble impurities
ESG Data Center

(1) Total number of notices of food safety 
violation received,  
(2) percentage corrected

100% of routine USDA/FDA noncompliance is corrected  
and responded to in writing. Zero regulatory enforcement  
events in FY2021.

Discussion of markets that ban imports of 
the entity’s products

Tyson Foods’ products are subject to the mandates of countries  
of export as related to any food sanitary and phytosanitary 
requirements. Tyson Foods complies fully and voluntarily with all 
export library requirements for countries we ship product into.

(1) 0 USD 
(2) 0 USD

(1) 0 USD 
(2) 0 USD

Tysonsustainability.com > Agriculture > Animal Welfare in the 
Value Chain

(1) 2.73 
(2) Unfortunately, we were saddened during the year to 
experience two team member fatalities—one road-related and one 
related to manufacturing. Such incidents make us even more 
committed to ongoing training, communication and oversight so 
that we can continue building a safe work environment for all.
ESG Data Center

Tysonsustainability.com > People > Employees > Health & Safety

Product Labeling  
& Marketing

Antibiotic Use in 
Animal Production

Revenue from products labeled as  
(1) containing genetically modified 
organisms (GMOs) and  
(2) non-GMO

Revenue from products labeled as  
(1) containing genetically modified 
organisms (GMOs) and  
(2) non-GMO

Percentage of animal production  
that received 
(1) medically important antibiotics and  
(2) not medically important antibiotics,  
by animal type

Workforce 
Health & Safety

(1) Total recordable incident rate (TRIR) and  
(2) fatality rate"

Description of efforts to assess, monitor, 
and mitigate acute and chronic respiratory 
health conditions

2 — TYSON FOODS — 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

SUSTAINABILITY DISCLOSURE TOPICS & ACCOUNTING METRICS—MEAT, POULTRY & DAIRY

TABLE 1. SUSTAINABILITY DISCLOSURE TOPICS & ACCOUNTING METRICS

Topic
Animal Care & 
Welfare

Accounting Metric
Percentage of pork produced without the 
use of gestation crates

2021 Response
We support housing systems that are well managed and maintain good 
animal health and welfare. Tyson owns and raises less than 10% of the 
pigs used in our pork business, and we work hard to make sure they’re 
as comfortable as possible in their housing environment. We support 
our farmer partners in continuous improvement of the housing they  
use for pregnant mother pigs, known as sows. We also verify good 
management practices by the independent farmers who supply us.  
We do this through our FarmCheck® program, which is an extensive 
audit process involving a third-party auditor that ensures pig farms are 
monitored for proper access to food and water, human-animal interaction 
and worker training.

Percentage of cage-free shell egg sales

We do not sell shell eggs.

Percentage of production certified to a 
thirdparty animal welfare standard

Tysonsustainability.com > Agriculture > Animal Welfare in the 
Value Chain

Environmental & 
Social Impacts of 
Animal Supply 
Chain

Percentage of livestock from suppliers 
implementing the Natural Resources 
Conservation Service (NRCS) conservation 
plan criteria or the equivalent

Due to lack of supply chain traceability, we are unable to provide a 
quantitative value related to the percentage of livestock we source 
from suppliers implementing the NRCS conservation plan criteria 
or the equivalent. We invite you, however, to review the Agriculture 
section of tysonsustainability.com to learn more about our land 
stewardship and cattle grazing goals.

Percentage of supplier and contract 
production facilities verified to meet 
animal welfare standards

100%
Tysonsustainability.com > Agriculture > Animal Welfare in the 
Value Chain

Ingredient Sourcing

List of priority food ingredients and 
discussion of sourcing risks due to 
environmental and social considerations

Tyson Foods Forest Protection Standard

Animal & Feed 
Sourcing

Percentage of animal feed sourced from 
regions with High or Extremely High 
Baseline Water Stress

6%

Percentage of contracts with producers 
located in regions with High or Extremely 
High Baseline Water Stress

In fiscal year FY2021, we initiatied a process to evaluate water 
stress risk in our contract poultry production. This work will be 
completed in FY2022.

Discussion of strategy to manage 
opportunities and risks to feed  
sourcing and livestock supply  
presented by climate change

Tysonsustainability.com > Agriculture > Land Stewardship

SUSTAINABILITY DISCLOSURE TOPICS & ACCOUNTING METRICS—MEAT, POULTRY & DAIRY

TABLE 2. ACTIVITY METRICS

Activity Metric
Number of processing and manufacturing facilities

2021 Response
Tyson Foods 2021 Form 10-K, published November 15, 2021, page 19

Animal protein production, by category; percentage outsourced Beef: 155,000 head per week; 100% from independent producers
Pork: 469,000 head per week; 90% from independent producers
Chicken: 47 million head per week; 100% from independent producers
Prepared Foods: 73 million pounds per week
Tyson Foods 2021 Form 10-K, published November 15, 2021, page 19

3 — TYSON FOODS — 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

