See our CDP Climate Change 2021 (2.2a, 2.3a) for more detail, and 
learn more about our management of water resources and water stress 
regions in our CDP Water report . b)  Describe the impact of 
climate-related risks 
and opportunities on 
the organization’s 
businesses, strategy 
and financial planning. 
(cont.)TRANSITION RISKS
Risk: Reduced availability of raw materials potentially 
impacting costs and scheduling of vehicle production
We purchase a wide variety of raw materials, parts, supplies, energy, 
freight, transportation and other services from numerous suppliers across 
the globe to manufacture our products. The raw materials primarily 
include steel, aluminum, resins, copper, lead and precious metals. 
Reduced availability of raw materials can lead to increases in prices for 
commodities, raw materials or other inputs that we and our suppliers 
use in manufacturing products, systems, components and parts. 
In addition, any increase in the cost of critical materials for our EV 
propulsion systems, including lithium, nickel, cobalt and certain rare 
earth metals, could lead to higher production costs for our EVs and 
could impede our ability to successfully deliver on our EV strategy. 
Further, increasing global demand for, and uncertain supply of, such 
materials could disrupt our suppliers’ ability to obtain such materials in 
a timely manner and/or could lead to increased costs. Geopolitical risk, 
fluctuations in supply and demand, any weakening of the U.S. dollar 
and other economic and political factors may continue to create pricing 
pressure for commodities, raw materials and other inputs. 
Approach
In every region in which we operate, local sourcing as a percentage of 
regional spend, which ranges from 73% in South America and other 
international regions to 92% in North America and 96% in China, 
helps us to mitigate certain supply chain risks. Our transition to EVs 
includes building a resilient, scalable and more sustainable North Strategy
Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy and financial planning