GRI Index        SASB Response        TCFD Response        UN SDGs        UNGC        Data Center        Assurance Statements
2020 VERIFICATION STATEMENT  - GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY  
1 
 
Statement of Verification  
Introduction  
Stantec Consulting Ltd. (Stantec) was contracted by General Motors Company (GM) to conduct an independent third -party verification of a selection 
of greenhouse gas (GHG) and sustainability data assertions (the Assertions) for their Global Facilities .  
In this work, GM was responsible for the collection of activity data used in the calculations, data management, completion of  the calculations, and 
preparation of the report that contains the Assertions.  
Stantec was responsible for planning and executing the verification to deliver a limited level of assurance opinion  as to whether the Assertions  are 
presented fairly and in accordance with the verific ation criteria. Stantec is accredited with the ANSI National Accreditation Board (ANAB), a member 
of the International Accreditation Forum (IAF), in accordance with ISO 14065 (Accreditation ID #0805 issue d to Stantec Consulting Ltd. for GHG 
verification and validation) .  
Intended User  
The results of the verification will be used by GM for internal and external sustainability reporting, and for reporting to CDP . The users of this 
statement are GM, sharehold ers and the public.  
Verification Objective  
The objective of the verification was to assess whether the GHG and sustainability data assertions  (as presented in Table 1 ) for GM’s 2020 
operations are accurately  prepared in accordance with appropriate criteria.  
Verification Boundaries  
The boundaries of the verification include GM owned and operated facilities within General Motors North America (GMNA), Gener al Motors South 
America (GMSA) and General Motors International Operations (GMI O).  A subset of GM facilities ha s been excluded from the Assertions , and a 
list of these excluded facilities has been provided to Stantec  and included in the detailed verification report for transparency.  
Reporting Period  
The verification was conducted for the period of January 1, 2020 to December 31, 2020. 
GHG and Sustainability Data Assertions 
The GHG and sustainability data assertions are provided in Table 1 .  
2021 SUSTAINABILITY SUPPLEMENT  71