GRI Index        SASB Response        TCFD Response        UN SDGs        UNGC        Data Center        Assurance Statements
2021 VERIFICATION STATEMENT  - GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY  
4 
 
Verification Criteria  
Stantec has conducted sufficient and appropriate procedures to express a limited level of assurance  opinion as t o whether the GHG and 
sustainability data assertions for 2021 as quantified by GM satisfy the requirements of the following criteria:  
x ISO 14064 Greenhouses Gases – Part 1: Specification with guidance at the organization level for quantification and reporting of greenhouse 
gas emissions and removals, 2006  
x World Resources Institute (WRI)/World Business Council for Sust ainable Development (WBCSD), The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A 
Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard  (Revised Edition), March 2004  
x WRI/WBCSD, GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance: An Amendment to the GHG Corporate Standard  
x CDP Guidance for the 20 21 reporting y ear 
x GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (various guidelines, updated from time to time)  
Verification Standards 
The verification is being conducted in accordance with ISO14064:3, the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard (2008) and S tantec’s 
Standar d Operating Procedures developed for accreditation to ISO 14065.  
Verification Opinion 
Based on the processes and procedures completed, there is no evidence that GM’s stated GHG and sustainability data assertions  for the 2021  
calendar year are not, in all m aterial respects, fairly stated in accordance with the criteria noted herein.   
Verifier’ s Independence, Impartiality, and Competence  
Stantec provides this conclusion as an independent verifier. Prior to entering into an assurance agreement Stantec assesses for any real, 
potential, or perceived conflict. Stantec continues to monitor for compromised impartiality throughout the engagement. No rea l, potential or 
perceived conflicts of interest were identified throughout the course of this verification.  
Stantec provides this report to GM in accordance with our terms of agreement. We consent to its public release. Because of th e inherent limitations 
in any verification, Stantec accepts no responsibility by use of a third party. Stantec has undertaken all a ssignments in its role as an independent 
verification body using professional effort consistent with ISO 14064:3. Stantec has assessed the 202 1 GHG and sustainability data assertions 
for GM Global Facilities using reasonably ascertainable information.  The  assessment represents the conditions in the subject area at the time of 
2021 SUSTAINABILITY SUPPLEMENT  69