GRI Index        SASB Response        TCFD Response        UN SDGs        UNGC        Data Center        Assurance Statements
2020 VERIFICATION STATEMENT  - GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY  
3 
 
Verification Standards 
The verification is being conducted in accordance with ISO14064:3, the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard (2008) and S tantec’s Standard 
Operating Procedures developed for accreditation to ISO 14065.  
Verification Opinion 
Based on the processes and procedures completed, there is no evidence that GM’s stated GHG and sustainability data assertions for t he 2020  
calendar year are not, in all material respects, fairly stated in accordance with the criteria noted herein.   
Verifier’ s Independence, Impartiality, and Competence  
Stantec provides this conclusion as an independent verifier. Prior to entering into an assurance agreement Stantec assesses f or any real, potential, 
or perceived conflict. Stantec continues to monitor for compromis ed impartiality throughout the engagement. No real, potential or perceived conflicts 
of interest were identified throughout the course of this verification.  
Stantec provides this report to GM in accordance with our terms of agreement. We consent to its pub lic release. Because of the inherent limitations 
in any verification, Stantec accepts no responsibility by use of a third party. Stantec has undertaken all assignments in its  role as an independent 
verification body using professional effort consistent wit h ISO 14064:3. Stantec has assessed the 202 0 GHG and sustainability data assertions for 
GM Global Facilities using reasonably ascertainable information.  The assessment represents the conditions in the subject are a at the time of the 
assessment.  Stantec did not conduct direct GHG emissions monitoring or other environmental sampling and analysis in conjunction with this 
verification report. Stantec will retain all verification  documents for a minimum of seven (7) years.  
STANTEC CONSULTING LTD. 
  
 
Gizem Gunal -Akgol , P.Eng  
Lead Verifier  
Environmental Services  
Tel: (519) 569-8126   Daniel Hegg, M.Sc., CEM  
Independent Peer Reviewer  
Environmental Services  
Tel: (250) 217 -9729  
Issued March 10, 202 2 in Waterloo, Ontario , Canada  
 
2021 SUSTAINABILITY SUPPLEMENT  73