118Summary –People and Culture
Topic Description Page(s)
IntroductionTesla's employees are its greatest asset and critical to achieving our mission. Our People Strategy is centered on 
providing meaningful work, a respectful, safe, inclusive and equitable workplace, compensating our people well, 
and making our benefits an outlier.22
Attracting EmployeesOur employee count has grown ~70 fold over the past decade and, in just over ten years, created nearly 100,000 
direct jobs. Whether it is through our direct hiring opportunities, internships or workforce development 
programs, interest in joining Tesla’s mission is at an all- time high . We had more than 3,000,000 unique 
applicants globally in 2021 alone.23 -27
Compensating EmployeesTesla provides a highly competitive wage that meets or exceeds the wages of comparable manufacturing roles, 
even before equity and benefits are factored in, and we want our benefits to be an outlier in the manufacturing 
industry. We have an annual pay equity program in place, designed to assess whether similarly situated 
employees are paid in a similar manner after accounting for a range of variables. 28 -32
Retaining EmployeesAs Model 3 has become the best -selling premium sedan globally and our profitability (operating margin) has rose 
to the highest in the industry, employee satisfaction has improved. This has fueled our ability to expand 
dramatically and provide career opportunities for many strong performers. As nearly 70% of our leadership is promoted from within Tesla, our employees are surrounded by examples of successful progression. 33 -34
Diversity, Equity and InclusionWe are proud to be a majority -minority company with a large representation of employees from communities 
that have long struggled to break through the historic roadblocks to equal opportunity in the U.S. As of 
December 31, 2020, 34% of our directors and vice presidents are people of color. This year we published our 
latest EEO -1 data for the first time.35 -41
Respectful WorkplaceWe strive to create an environment where people love to come to work every day. With over 100,000 
employees as of March 2022, challenges arise, and we address them head on. In 2021, we re- doubled our efforts 
to educate employees and managers that any form of discrimination must be reported. 42 -43
Employee EngagementEmployee engagement drives productivity, satisfaction and loyalty and plays a critical role in employee 
retention. Tesla’s engagement initiatives strive to make employees feel informed, valued and respected, while 
company -wide open -door policies with leaders empower employees to make their ideas heard. 44
Disaster ReliefWe are committed to providing disaster relief through product donations. Our disaster relief efforts have 
provided 100% clean, emissions free emergency power to people in Ukraine, New Orleans after Hurricane Ida, 
and Kentucky and Texas after sever winter storms. We also provided free supercharging to customers in 
countries surrounding Ukraine. 45 -46
Environmental, Health, Safety and 
SecurityIn 2021, our focus remained on protecting people, the planet, our property and products. We recently deployed 
our new EHS&S system –MyEHS –in order to better collect and manage data, allowing us to make decision that 
reduce risk. Furthermore, in 2021, our ATSM Global Serious Injury Rate remained below the industry average.47 -54