120Summary –Product Impact
Topic Description Page(s)
Product Affordability 
(Price Equivalency & 
Total Cost of Ownership)Model 3 is price competitively with ICE equivalents. But, when compared on a total cost of ownership basis, the 
Model 3 is much closer to a Toyota Camry on all -in cost per mile than to an ICE equivalent such as a BMW 3 
Series.77 -78
Product Usage & UsabilityOur data shows that Tesla vehicles are being driven more than average vehicles in the U.S., suggesting that they 
are generally being used as a customer’s primary vehicle. The superior range of our vehicles and a robust global 
Supercharger Network makes this possible.79 -80
Vehicle SafetyAt Tesla, safety features are not optional. Our full suite of safety features comes standard with every vehicle. 
When we design vehicles, first and foremost, we want them to be safe. Our active safety features are powered by 
eight cameras, a neural -net computer and learnings from our fleet of over two million cars. 81 –84
Autopilot SafetyIn 2021, we recorded 0.22 crashes for every million miles driven in which drivers were using Autopilot technology 
(Autosteer and active safety features). For drivers who were not using Autopilot technology (no Autosteer and 
active safety features), we recorded 0.77 crashes for every million miles driven. By comparison, NHTSA’s most 
recent data shows that in the United States there are 1.81 automobile crashes for every million miles driven.85
Data Driven SafetyTesla strived to go beyond industry standard testing. We leverage data from our fleet of over two million cars to 
better understand accidents and build solutions around them. 86 -87
Passive Safety & Tesla Safety Awards Since 2019, Tesla vehicles earned 5 -star ratings from safety rating agencies across the U.S., Europe and Australia. 88 -89
Fire RiskFrom 2012 to 2021, there has been approximately five Tesla vehicle fires for every billion miles traveled. By 
comparison, data from the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) and U.S. Department of Transportation 
show that in the U.S. there are 53 vehicle fires for every billion miles travelled.90
Solar + Storage ProductsPairing energy storage with renewables is required to transition our grid to zero -emission sources. In 2021, in 
order to meet demand that is well in excess of supply for energy storage products, Tesla began building a new 
production facility capable of producing 40,000,000 kWh of energy storage per year.91-92
Resilience of the GridElectric grid disturbances in the U.S. have increased dramatically over the last 15 years. Our solar and storage 
products not only deliver cost savings and energy independence, but they also harden the grid from adverse 
events in a cost -effective and environmentally friendly manner.93