117Summary –Corporate Governance
Topic Description Page(s)
IntroductionSound corporate governance is critical to our mission. We are committed to establishing an operating framework 
that exercises appropriate oversight of responsibilities at all levels throughout the company and manages its 
affairs consistent with high principles of business ethics.11 -12
Our Approach to Corporate 
GovernanceOur unique business requires a unique approach to corporate governance. And our mission requires a long -term 
focus that we believe will ultimately maximize value to our employees and our stockholders. Our corporate 
governance structure has facilitated several key decisions which might have appeared counter -intuitive to some, 
but which have set up the Tesla to achieve long -term success.13
Board Committees (as of March 1, 
2022)The Board has four standing committees —the Audit Committee, the Compensation Committee, the Nominating 
and Corporate Governance Committee and the Disclosure Controls Committee —which are each further 
described in this section. 14 -15
Compensation PhilosophyOur compensation philosophy reflects our long -term mission and our startup origins. We emphasize structuring 
compensation to reward our named executive officers based on performance, and equity awards weigh heavily in 
our named executive officers’ total compensation, including awards that vest upon the achievement of clear and 
measurable milestones. 16
Data Privacy and CybersecurityTesla builds products with privacy and security at their core. Additionally, managing data privacy is a shared task 
through all levels of our organization. Our privacy principles are: 1. We build privacy into our products from start 
to finish; 2. We give customers choices about their data; 3. We maintain trust through transparency; and 4. We safeguard personal data.17 -18
Human RightsTheethical treatment of all people and regard for human rights is core to our mission of a sustainable future. We 
believe all businesses within our supply chain have a responsibility to share our respect for human rights. Our 
human rights policy is the formalization of our commitment to uphold and respect these rights and the values 
they represent. We have a zero -tolerance policy when it comes to child or forced labor and human trafficking by 
our suppliers.19 -20