Helping Build  
a Better World

Last year, we were proud to launch our inaugural Integrated 
Sustainability and Financial Report, building on more than 
two decades of sustainability reporting at Ford and giving 
our stakeholders a more holistic view of our performance. 
This year we have continued to evolve our process to better 
show the indelible link between our commitment to 
sustainability and our continued success, for generations 
to come. In Ford’s second Integrated Report, you’ll see what 
we’ve accomplished in the last year alone. We’ll show how 
we’ve revolutionized and electrified some of the most popular, 
iconic vehicles, helping to shape the future of zero-emissions 
transportation. You’ll see unprecedented investments in 
sustainable manufacturing and jobs to help drive the next 
century of progress. You’ll see the continued impact of Ford 
and the Ford Fund to strengthen communities around the 
world. And you’ll see how we’re investing in the talent, 
capabilities, and technologies that will help build sustainable 
and ethical growth for Ford and for our shared future. 

All of this is because the future of this company centers on a 
purpose bigger than building vehicles. We are helping to build 
a better world, where every person is free to move and pursue 
their dreams. A world that is fully electric. A world that is more 
equitable, inclusive, and sustainable. And in doing so, we are 
putting people, the planet, and our shared prosperity first.

We’re glad to have you along for the ride.

About This Report 
The value of our business is rooted in our purpose to help 
build a better world where every person is free to move 
and pursue their dreams.

That means that we are directing our investments to 
what’s good for all people and the planet. It also means 
we are setting the pathway for a strong business that 
will continue for decades to come. We will win by being 
financially healthy and effective in sustainability, which 
we believe are mutually dependent objectives. 

Based on our most recent materiality assessment, 
this year’s report includes four main sections – Driving 
Innovation and Sustainable Growth, Putting People 
First, Protecting the Environment, and Creating 
Responsible and Ethical Growth – which reflects Ford’s 
significant sustainability initiatives and impacts. 

To supplement this report, we are also publishing our first 
Human Rights Report and our first narrative Task Force 
on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Report.

You can also find all our indexes in our ESG Data Book 
and Additional Downloads page.

Read more about the reporting scope, boundaries and data 

assurance process we used in this Report on p.108

We welcome you to share with us your feedback and 
any comments you may have at sustaina@ford.com.

For all of us at Ford, the truest mark of success is whether we leave the world  
a better place for the next generation. From our earliest days to the present day, 
Ford has followed that north star. 

We invented the moving assembly line and the $5 workday, scaled the Model T, forged the 
Arsenal of Democracy, and converted our plants to make ventilators and masks during the 
pandemic. Each generation faces different challenges, 
but our purpose has always been the same: to help build 
a better world, where every person is free to move and 
pursue their dreams.

Today, our industry and our world are going through a 
period of immense change. We believe it gives us the 
opportunity to create the most value for the company 
and our customers since Henry Ford scaled the Model T. 
But the change in our industry makes it even more 
important to stay true to the values that have defined 
our company. We publish this report to hold ourselves 
accountable and determine if we are truly moving the 
needle on the issues that matter.

Climate change, for example, is among the biggest 
challenges of our generation. We all share the 
responsibility to address the threat it poses our economy, 
our health, and our way of life. Just like the Model T 
revolutionized mobility, we believe electrification can do 
the same for reducing carbon emissions. So, we have 
been transforming our business to lead the electric 
revolution at scale, creating distinct but complementary 
businesses – Ford Model e, Ford Blue and Ford Pro – 
that will help us compete and win in the new era of 
electric and connected vehicles.

We are introducing all-electric versions of our most 
popular, iconic nameplates – the F-150 Lightning, the 
Mustang Mach-E, and the E-Transit van – and scaling 
production to reach a target of producing more than 
2 million electric vehicles per year by 2026. We are also 
leading a new era of sustainable manufacturing, re-
thinking not just what we build, but how we build. In 
Tennessee and Kentucky, we have made the largest 
one-time U.S. investment by any automotive manufacturer 
to construct the most sustainable manufacturing facilities 
in our history. Around the world, we are dedicating more 
than $50 billion through 2026 to accelerate our zero-
emission vehicle plan and create an ultra-efficient 
manufacturing system for our vehicles and the batteries 
that power them, helping us achieve our goal of carbon 
neutrality by 2050. Our aspiration is to achieve a business 
model that goes beyond net-zero and becomes a net-
positive for both the environment and the economy.

Investing in electric vehicles is the right thing to do for 
our children and grandchildren. It is also the right thing to 
do for our business. The demand for our first-generation 
electric vehicles has far exceeded expectations. We 
believe we can profitably grow as we invest in electric 
vehicles, connectivity, and modernization. We plan to 
maximize the potential offered by digital, connected 
vehicles to make our products more accessible, more 
inclusive, and safer to drive than ever before. We are 
proving that you can drive prosperity and protect the 
planet at the same time, and investors are taking notice. 

At Ford, we have always strived to take the long view 
on the environment, even when it was unpopular. 
We were one of the first industrial companies to publish 
our progress towards sustainability, one of the first 
automakers to support the Paris Agreement, and the only 
full-line American automaker to partner with California 
on more stringent emissions standards. Now, we intend 
to lead the industry in another respect by putting a 
spotlight on human rights.

Ford is publishing a Human Rights Report – a first for 
the company and for our industry. It will examine how 
our materials are sourced, where our products are 
manufactured, and how our labor standards measure up. 
Countries around the world are defining access to clean 
air and water as fundamental human rights. We at Ford 
agree – and are setting clear targets for reducing the 
global emissions of our entire supply chain. 

Whenever the world faces disruption and uncertainty, 
Ford has stepped up to shape it for the better. We are at 
our best when we are creating something larger than 
ourselves. In this time of profound change, we will answer 
the call to lead our industry towards a more sustainable 
future, while giving our customers the very best of Ford.

Ford at a Glance: 182,790 employees in 43 countries

Facts and figures 76% reduction in Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 2035 from a 2017 base year, approved by Science Based Targets Initiative (SBTi)1

50% reduction in Scope 3 GHG emissions 
per vehicle kilometer from use of 
sold products by 2035 from a 2019 
base year, approved by SBTi1

$136.3B revenue and $10.0B company 
adjusted EBIT

78% freshwater reduction in 
water use since 2000

9M FordPassTM app and Lincoln 
WayTM members in the U.S.2

3.8m3 water use per 
vehicle produced

20,500 charging stations (over 70,000 
plugs) and growing on the 
BlueOval™ Charge Network 
in North America3

200,000+ charging stations in Europe on 
the FordPass Charging Network 
in partnership with NewMotion

$1.3M donated to disaster relief 
efforts around the globe

$74.4M in charitable contributions 
to strengthen communities 
worldwide

89 zero waste to 
landfill sites 
globally

120M facemasks donated to at-risk 
communities in all 50 U.S. states 
and hosted on-site COVID-19 
vaccination clinics

And this purpose has set us apart as a company for 
more than a century. We are committed to making 
our purpose evident in every part of our business, from 
the way we source our materials, to the vehicles we 
create, the services we provide, and the interactions 
we have with our customers, employees, and 
communities. It not only guides our vision of the future, 
but informs the steps we take to help build it. While 
our purpose hasn’t changed, we continuously set new 
goals and milestones for the betterment of our ever-
changing world. And in service of generations to come. 

Everyone imagines an ideal future – Ford is in business 
to help make it real. In this section, we’ll bring to life 
the four pillars of our purpose with tangible examples 
of how we’re building a better world today.

Turn the page to see how we’ve been delivering  
on our Purpose in 2021

$50B planned global 
investment in EVs, 
including battery 
production, from 
2022 through 2026

240 GWh

of battery cell capacity 
globally by the end of the 
decade, including 140 GWh 
in North America, with the 
rest in Europe and China

Announced new joint 
venture with SK 
Innovation to scale 
North America battery 
deliveries

First

major U.S. automaker to sign the 
Action Pledge for the UN’s 
International Year for the 
Elimination of Child Labor, which 
outlines steps companies can 
take to end child labor by 2025 

4 years

in a row, Ford has 
been recognized 
as part of the 
Bloomberg Gender-
Equality Index

$11.4B

planned investment in BlueOval 
City to build Ford’s next generation 
F-Series vehicles and two mega-
sites in Tennessee and Kentucky 
with SK Innovation

100%

of passenger vehicles in Europe will be zero-emissions capable, all-
electric or plug-in hybrid by 2026, and completely all-electric by 2030. 
Two-thirds of commercial vehicle sales in Europe will be all-electric 
or plug-in hybrid by 2030 and all commercial vehicles in Europe will 
be zero emission by 2035.

Broke ground on

$1B

investment in Ford’s Cologne 
Electrification Center and 
announced £230 million 
investment to transform 
Halewood, U.K. facility to build 
EV components for Europe

First OEM to join Better Climate 
Initiative committing to reduce 
GHG emissions from our 
manufacturing facilities in the 
U.S. by 50% over the next 
nine years 

Announced new global 
battery center of 
excellence in Romulus, 
Southeast Michigan 
called Ford Ion Park

8  |  

Additional 
investment in Solid 
Power to accelerate 
solid-state vehicle 
battery development 

Launched Pilot Program in the Democratic Republic of Congo, 
empowering women to build businesses in the cobalt supply chain, 
while addressing the root causes of poverty and child labor

Approved science-based 
emissions targets (SBTi) 
for our operations and 
vehicles

2021 CDP Supplier 
Engagement 
Leader, 2021 CDP 
Water A rating, 
2021 CDP Climate A rating

#1 

automotive company and 
20th overall on Just Capital 
annual ranking 

Published first 
Human Rights 
Report

Contents

  
FFuundndaamenmenttaallss

Our Sustainability 
Strategy 

Driving Innovation and  
Sustainable Growth

Putting  
People First

Protecting the 
Environment

Creating Responsible 
and Ethical Growth

Our Purpose in Action – continued

50%

of Ford’s global sales 
to be electric vehicles 
(EVs) by 2030

Introduced the all-
electric Ford E-Transit 
Van and Ford F-150 
Lightning truck

Joined the RouteZero 
initiative to work 
towards 100% 
zero-emission cars 
and vans globally 
by 2040, and 2035 
in leading markets

9  |  

Free to Move 

Pursue Dreams

Committed to Lincoln 
having a fully electric 
portfolio by 2030

Teamed with Redwood Materials to help localize the 
battery supply chain network and ramp up lithium-ion 
battery recycling in the U.S.

$525M

investment in the U.S. to train 
skilled technicians to service 
connected, electric zero-
emission vehicles

Launched Ford Pro

Started local production of 
Mustang Mach-E in China 
that is being sold to customers 
through a network of direct-
to-customer city stores 

Mustang Mach-E SUV 
takes top spot in Car and 
Driver inaugural Electric 
Vehicle of the Year Award

Issued

$2.5B

inaugural Green Bond, helping 
raise funds for our EV portfolio

Introduced the North 
America auto industry’s first 
Sustainable Financing 
Framework, covering both 
an Auto OEM and its captive 
finance company

Aligned

$15.5B

in revolving corporate  
credit lines to  
sustainability-linked KPIs 

Contents

Ford
Ford 
FFuundndaamenmenttaallss

Our Sustainability 
Strategy 

Driving Innovation and  
Sustainable Growth

Putting  
People First

Protecting the 
Environment

Creating Responsible 
and Ethical Growth

Our Purpose in Action – continued





A Ford Dealer Family for 
Two Generations Steps Up 
to Do What’s Right

Juan Martin Simone is a second-
generation Ford dealer in Argentina, 
and the Ford dealership, the first in 
South America, is not the only thing Juan 
inherited from his father. He inherited a 
sense of responsibility in building public 
trust – an obligation to his community to 
help and do what’s right. Today, Juan and 
his family continue to embody this spirit 

at the dealership. So, when he heard about a local non-profit group 
stepping in to help those in need, he got involved, helping the group 
build a school from scratch for a low-income province by providing 
food, financial resources and, of course, Ford trucks.





A Deep Commitment to Volunteering, 
Especially When Catastrophe Hits

When Yvonne Stephan, Vehicle Recycling Analyst, 
began her career at Ford, she quickly found that 
her love of cars wasn’t the only thing she had in 
common with the Ford family – she also shared 
their passion for helping to build a better world. 

Through the Ford Volunteer Corps, Yvonne has 
been coordinating large-scale volunteer projects 
for the Ford Germany team for more than a decade. 
When catastrophic flooding hit Germany, Yvonne 

was shocked to see her inbox filled to the brim with 
Ford employees who asked how they could help 
before the rain had even let up. 

Yvonne got to work organizing projects, with 
support from Ford Fund. Feeling the Ford family 
come together in this way was a shining light in a 
dark time, and really showed what Ford is all about.



Watch this video to learn more about Yvonne’s story

10  |  

 
 
Contents

  
Fundamentals
Fundamentals

Our Sustainability 
Strategy 

Driving Innovation and 
Sustainable Growth

Putting 
People First

Protecting the 
Environment

Creating Responsible 
and Ethical Growth

Our Leadership 
in Sustainability

Ford Motor Company has a long 
history as an automotive and 
sustainability pioneer. 

Doing the right thing is in our DNA. Bill Ford 
himself is a passionate environmental 
leader and has spearheaded Ford’s 
sustainability efforts for over two decades. 
We were the first OEM to begin reporting 
on sustainability 23 years ago, and we 
continue to challenge ourselves to lead, 
not just within automotive, but beyond. 
And we have done this while continuing 
to deliver the iconic vehicles and rewarding 
experiences people expect from Ford.

But we’re not resting on our laurels. We’re 
imagining the future of mobility, and 
building for it. By reducing emissions and 
waste from our operations and pushing the 
boundaries of innovation and technologies, 
we aim to reach carbon neutrality no later 
than 2050. And when we say carbon 
neutral, we are accounting for our entire 
impact on the planet – from vehicle 
emissions, to the power in our factories, 
to our suppliers. The breadth and depth 
of this commitment is characteristic of how 
Ford approaches any major challenge – 
with authentic commitment, purposeful 
ingenuity, and energizing passion 
throughout the organization.

11  |  

Publish our first Corporate 
Citizenship report, 
“Connecting with Society”

Mark 50 years of 
supporting communities 
through our philanthropic 
arm, Ford Motor 
Company Fund

Reopen our Ford Rouge 
Center with its living roof, 
daylighting system, and 
waste minimization

Launch the Escape Hybrid

Introduce SYNC, a hands-
free connectivity system 

Join the United States 
Climate Action Partnership 
and UN Global Compact

Launch 2008 Ford Mustang 
with the first soy foam based 
seats and headrests

Launch the full 
electric Focus EV

1999

2003

2004

2005

2007

2009

2011

2013

Establish Ford 
Driving Skills for Life 
education program

Adopt the Code of 
Human Rights/Basic 
Working Conditions 
for our company 
and suppliers

Receive a 100 score for the first 
time from Human Rights Campaign, 
which also names Ford a Best Place 
to Work for LGBT equality

Establish Ford Volunteer Corps 
to provide community service 
opportunities for employees 

Open Ford Resource 
and Engagement 
Center in Southwest 
Detroit — the first of 
five in Ford Fund’s 
global network of 
community centers 

Launch the EcoBoost engine, 
which optimizes power and 
efficiency using turbocharging 
and direct gasoline injection

 
Contents

  
FFuundndaamenmenttaallss

Our Sustainability 
Strategy 

Driving Innovation and  
Sustainable Growth

Putting  
People First

Protecting the 
Environment

Creating Responsible 
and Ethical Growth

Our Leadership in Sustainability – continued

Develop the Ford Mobility plan, 
advancing connectivity, mobility, 
self-driving vehicles, and big data

Begin exploring self-driving 
vehicle technology

Launch the new, lightweight 
all-aluminum F-150

Develop the Transportation Mobility Cloud 
with Ford-owned Autonomic

Meet our goal, set in 2010, to reduce 
operational GHG emissions per vehicle 
produced by 30% (eight years early)

Celebrate 10 years of soybean-based 
foam in more than 18.5 million vehicles 
built in North America

Conduct first formal UN human rights 
saliency assessment

Launch Mustang Mach-E

Design and Produce a new powered 
air-purifying respirator and new 
ventilators, in collaboration with the 
UAW, produce face masks at Ford’s Van 
Dyke Transmission Plant for internal 
Ford use and provide millions to local 
healthcare workers and communities

Contribute over $1.13 million to 
worldwide COVID relief through 
employee donation match; Direct 
$3 million to community organizations 

Achieve 75% absolute reduction in 
water use since 2000

Offer 155,000 charging stations 
in Europe on the FordPass Charging 
Network, in partnership with 
NewMotion

2014

2015

2016

2018

2019

2020

Implement Partnership 
for a Cleaner Environment 
(PACE) program

Become a signatory to the 
UN CEO Water Mandate

Announce a saving of 
more than 10 billion gallons 
of water

Become a signatory to the UN 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)

Become the first OEM to join the 
Responsible Business Alliance (RBA)

Launch 
Sustainability 
Aspirational Goals 

Achieve double A 
rating for CDP 
Climate and Water

With so much still to 
do and guided by our 
purpose, Ford will 
continue to be at the 
forefront of positive 
change, helping to 
build a better world 
for everyone.

12  |  

Contents

Ford
Ford 
FFuundndaamenmenttaallss

Our Sustainability 
Strategy 

Driving Innovation and  
Sustainable Growth

Putting  
People First

Protecting the 
Environment

Creating Responsible 
and Ethical Growth

Unleashing 
the Ford+ 
Plan

To advance the transformation of our global 
automotive business, Ford is accelerating the 
development and scaling of breakthrough 
electric, connected vehicles, while leveraging our 
iconic nameplates to strengthen our operating 
performance and take full advantage of a 
century of engineering and industrial expertise.

Following the 2021 introduction of the Ford+ 
Plan – which has been called the company’s 
biggest opportunity for growth and value 
creation since Henry Ford scaled production of 
the Model T – we are now forming two distinct, 
strategically interdependent, auto businesses – 
Ford Blue and Ford Model e. 

Together with the Ford Pro business, these new 
complementary organizations will help unleash 
the full potential of the Ford+ Plan, driving 
growth and value creation and positioning the 
company to outperform both legacy automakers 
and new EV competitors.

Ford Model e will be Ford’s center of innovation 
and growth, to create incredible electric vehicles 
and digital experiences for new generations 
of Ford customers. Ford Blue’s mission is to 
deliver a more profitable and vibrant internal 
combustion engine (ICE) business, strengthen 
our successful and iconic vehicle families, and 
earn greater loyalty by delivering incredible 
service and experiences. 

13  |  

We have an extraordinary opportunity to lead this thrilling new era 
of connected and electric vehicles, give our customers the very best 
of Ford, and help make a real difference for the health of the planet.” 

Kumar Galhotra, Ford Blue President

The Ford+ Plan

Vehicle shown with optional equipment

Ford Blue 
Inspire customers to pursue their dreams and passions in life with iconic Ford vehicles 
and experiences, and serve as the engine that supports and powers Ford’s future

Ford Model e 
Delight customers with truly incredible electric and connected vehicles and services, 
and build the future as Ford’s center of innovation and growth

Ford Drive
Deliver shared, sustainable mobility and services 
to our customers with driven and autonomous 
vehicles (AV) fleets

Ford Credit
Serve people with trusted mobility 
financing products and services that turn 
dreams into reality for work, for play, for life 

Ford Pro
Accelerate productivity and sustainability for 
commercial customers with a trusted platform 
of connected vehicles, software and services

Contents

  
FFuundndaamenmenttaallss

Our Sustainability 
Strategy 

Driving Innovation and  
Sustainable Growth

Putting  
People First

Protecting the 
Environment

Creating Responsible 
and Ethical Growth

Our Iconic Vehicles 

Ford is continuing to transform its global automotive business, accelerating 
the development and scaling of breakthrough electric, connected vehicles, 
while leveraging its iconic nameplates to strengthen operating performance 
and take full advantage of engineering and industrial capabilities.

Model e

Ford Blue

Maverick and Bronco 
Owners of our all-new hybrid and a re-
imagined legend can seek out great 
adventures or meet everyday needs, from 
scaling rugged terrain to helping a friend 
move a couch. It’s the kind of versatility 
that our customers have asked for – 
reaffirmed by the multiple awards each 
has earned to date.

Read more on p.18

The F-150 Lightning 
The F-Series, America’s best-selling truck4 
is now available with an array of innovative 
technologies and connected features. And 
of course, the power, payload, and towing 
capability Ford customers love.

Read more on p.15

The Mustang Mach-E
Already a huge hit with customers, this 
beauty was named North America’s SUV 
of the Year and Best Car to Buy in 2021 – 
with good reason.

Read more on p.16

The E-Transit
The all-electric version of the Best-Selling 
Cargo Van in the World5 offers new ways 
to optimize fleet performance thanks to 
high-speed in-vehicle data architecture, 
cloud-based services, and easy integration 
into Ford Pro’s suite of software and end-
to-end charging solutions. 

 Read more on p.17

14  |  

Contents

Ford
Ford 
FFuundndaamenmenttaallss

Our Sustainability 
Strategy 

Driving Innovation and  
Sustainable Growth

Putting  
People First

Protecting the 
Environment

Creating Responsible 
and Ethical Growth

Our Iconic Vehicles – continued





F-150 Lightning – 
A Defining 
Moment

320

miles EPA- 
estimated 
range*

F-150 Lightning Features 

• EPA-estimated range of 320 miles on

• Models with extended-range battery is targeted

LARIAT and XLT with the available extended-
range battery.*

• Expected to be certified as a zero tailpipe

emissions vehicle.**

• The standard-range battery has a targeted
426 horsepower (318kW) and 775 pound-
feet (1050 Nm) of torque.6

to go from 0-60 mph in the mid-4-second range.7

• Pro Power Onboard.
• Standard 4x4 and independent rear suspension.
• Mega Power Frunk
• Seamless connectivity
• Over-the-air software updates.
• Vehicle-to-vehicle charging capability.

* Based on full charge. Actual range varies with conditions such as external environment, vehicle use, vehicle maintenance, and lithium-ion battery age and state of health.

**Visit fueleconomy.gov for more information.

15  |  

For both Ford and the American auto industry, the F-150 Lightning represents 
a defining moment as we progress toward a zero-emissions, digitally connected 
future. F-Series is America’s best-selling truck for 45 years, the backbone of 
work across the country, and a trusted icon for generations of customers. 
Now we are revolutionizing it for a new generation.” 

Bill Ford, Executive Chair

Zero

tailpipe emissions 
certification expected**

The F-150 Lightning is the smartest 
truck Ford has ever built. We had to 
make it a showcase of innovation. 
After all, the F-150 is the heart and 
soul of Ford. Electrifying this iconic 
truck demonstrates just how serious 
we are about zero-emission vehicles. 

Just as Henry Ford and the Model T 
revolutionized mobility, the F-150 
will revolutionize zero-emissions 
transportation for a new era. The 
F-150 Lightning is a pillar of the more 
than $50 billion Ford is investing in 
electric vehicles globally through 
2026. And the strategy is working – 
customer reservations nearing 
200,000 for the F-150 Lightning 
demonstrate the appetite for an 
electric pickup truck. The Lightning is 
drawing interest from new customers 
at a record rate in North America, 
with more than 75% of reservation 
holders new to the Ford brand.8

To meet high customer demand, 
Ford is planning to nearly double 
production to 150,000 trucks mid-
2023. “The reality is clear: People 
are ready for an all-electric F-150 
and Ford is pulling out all the stops 
to scale our operations and increase 

production capacity,” said Kumar 
Galhotra, president of The Americas 
& International Markets Group, Ford 
Motor Company.

The F-150 Lightning will be built at 
the Rouge Electric Vehicle Center, the 
same factory in Dearborn, Michigan 
where Henry Ford invented the 
assembly line and changed the 
world. And when it comes online in 
2025, Ford’s new BlueOval City plant 
in Tennessee will be a hive of 
technical innovation to build next-
generation electric F-Series trucks.

BlueOval City will be among the 
largest auto manufacturing 
campuses in U.S. history. Like the 
iconic Rouge complex in Michigan 
did a century earlier, BlueOval City 
will usher in a new era for American 
manufacturing, helping to create our 
vision for an ultra-efficient, carbon-
neutral manufacturing system — 
one that creates positive impacts 
on people and the environment.

Ford is committed to leading the 
electric vehicle revolution and 
bringing it to scale. Over the next 
two years, Ford aims to emerge as 
the clear No. 2 electric vehicle maker 
in North America and then challenge 
the No. 1 spot as huge investments 
in battery and electric vehicle 
manufacturing come onstream. 
Within 24 months, Ford will have the 
global capacity to produce 600,000 
electric vehicles annually.

 
Contents

  
FFuundndaamenmenttaallss

Our Sustainability 
Strategy 

Driving Innovation and  
Sustainable Growth

Putting  
People First

Protecting the 
Environment

Creating Responsible 
and Ethical Growth

The Mustang Mach-E wholeheartedly rejects the notion that electric vehicles are 
only good at reducing gas consumption. People want a car that’s thrilling to drive, 
that looks gorgeous, and that can easily adapt to their lifestyle – and the Mustang 
Mach-E delivers all of this in unmatched style.” 

Hau Thai-Tang, Chief Product Development Officer

Our Iconic Vehicles – continued





Mustang Mach-E – 
A Unique Driving 
Experience

314

miles EPA-estimated 
range with extended-
range battery and RWD*

Zero

tailpipe 
emissions**

Awards

Mustang Mach-E earns Car 
and Driver Magazine’s 
inaugural Electrical Vehicle 
of the Year, and the 2021 
North American Utility 
Vehicle of the Year™ in its 
first year of production

2022 Mustang Mach-E Features (California Route 1 Model)

• Zero tailpipe emissions**
• 314 miles EPA-estimated range
with extended-range battery
and RWD*

• GT Performance Edition

0-60 mph in 3.5 seconds9

• Standard RWD with eAWD

available

• Seamless connectivity
• Ford Power-Up software

updates

* Based on full charge. Actual range varies with conditions such as external environment, vehicle use, vehicle 

maintenance, lithium ion battery age, and state of health.

**Visit fueleconomy.gov for more information.

16  |  

3.5

seconds9 
0-60 MPH

The all-electric, Mustang Mach-E 
SUV was born of the same all-
American ideals that inspired the 
world’s best-selling sports coupe – 
freedom, progress, fast performance, 
and a touch of rebellion. 

From its extraordinary performance 
capabilities to the quiet atmosphere 
that only electric vehicles offer, the 
Mustang Mach-E harnesses the power 
of electrification to create a unique 
driving experience while retaining that 
unmistakable Mustang feel. 

Thanks to advances in battery 
technology, the Mustang Mach-E is the 
kind of car that gets people excited 
about driving. And with traditional 
Mustang design cues like the double-
cowl instrument panel rounding out 
the interior, this SUV delivers a sleek, 
beautiful profile, spirited ride and 
handling, as well as state-of-the-art 
connected vehicle technology.

Ford brought the Mustang Mach-E to 
life through a development process 
concentrated entirely on customer 

needs and desires. Ford engineers 
and designers were able to create 
the Mustang Mach-E with SUV-size 
proportions to seat five adults 
comfortably – plenty of space for 
friends, kids, and cargo. 

The Mustang Mach-E instills 
confidence with an EPA-estimated 
range of 314 miles for the CA 
Route 1 Extended Range Model* with 
extended-range battery and RWD, 
offering built-in charging solutions 
that route customers to nearby 
public charging stations and provide 
recommendations on where to 
charge on trips. Mustang Mach-E 
owners, in fact, have access to over 
20,500 public charge stations in 
the BlueOval™ Charge Network6 — 
the largest public charging network 
in North America offered by an 
automotive manufacturer.

With consumer interest booming, 
Ford announced the tripling of 
production for the Mustang Mach-E 
and expects to reach more than 
200,000 units per year by 2023 – 
a pillar of Ford’s commitment 
to lead and scale the electric 
vehicle revolution.

 
Contents

  
FFuundndaamenmenttaallss

Our Sustainability 
Strategy 

Driving Innovation and  
Sustainable Growth

Putting  
People First

Protecting the 
Environment

Creating Responsible 
and Ethical Growth

Our Iconic Vehicles – continued





E-Transit Productivity 
Accelerated with  
Ford Pro

Zero

tailpipe 
emissions

126

miles targeted 
range in the 
low-roof cargo 
van configuration*

E-Transit Features

• Zero tailpipe emissions
• 2022 Ford E-Transit Cargo Van Low Roof models

have a targeted range of 126 miles*

487.3 cu ft

Provides up to 487.3 
cubic feet of cargo space10

• Lower maintenance requirements
• Available Pro Power OnBoard provides
2.4W of power, enough to charge tools

12

13

• Provides up to 487.3 cubic feet of cargo space11
• 8-year, 100,000-mile electric vehicle 

• Over-the-air software updates
•  Seamless connectivity

component warranty (whichever comes first)

* Based on full charge. USA targeted range reflecting current capability based on analytical projection consistent with US EPA MCT drive cycle methodology. 

Actual range varies with conditions such as external elements, driving behaviors, vehicle maintenance, and lithium-ion battery age.

17  |  

Ford is the leader in commercial trucks and vans in Europe and North America, so 
the transition of fleet vehicles to zero emissions is critical to achieving our carbon 
neutrality goal by 2050. Ford is leading the charge with the all-electric Transit, 
providing a huge advantage for customers to help lower their operating costs and 
provide connected fleet management technologies that will help their businesses.”

Jim Farley, President and Chief Executive Officer

dashboards that connects customers 
to Ford Pro software and charging 
products. The system updates with 
real time data and continuously 
gets smarter, learns daily patterns 
of fleets small to large, helps plan 
routing and charging, simply manage 
financing, and schedule over the air 
updates.

By continuing to trust Ford Pro for 
their commercial vehicle needs, 
businesses have the capabilities they 
need to get the job done – backed 
by a company that not only has built 
America’s best-selling line of 
commercial vehicles for 36 straight 
years, but is now leading the future 
of work through electrification. 
And we’re just getting started.

Read more about Ford Pro on p.76

Ford Pro is helping to lead businesses 
into the future with the all-new Ford 
E-Transit, a smart workhorse offering 
customers cost and productivity 
improvements generated by a fully 
electric powertrain, software 
innovations and Pro Power Onboard 
options.

Ford Pro’s ecosystem additionally 
includes a one-stop-shop of software, 
charging, service and financing 
seamlessly integrating electric fleets 
into day-to-day operations across 
existing gas fleets with ease. As a 
result, customers can make a smooth 
transition to the future of business 
without losing the traditional Transit 
capabilities they love.

In fact, demand for the 2022 E-Transit 
has been strong with more than 300 
customers placing orders for more than 
10,000 vans – from small businesses 
to municipalities like the City of Orlando 
to some of the nation’s largest service 
providers and retailers. Because we 
understand that one size never fits all, 
we’re helping commercial customers 
build their fleets with a variety of 
choices – eight all-electric van 
configurations in 2022. 

Ford has been America’s best-selling 
commercial van brand for 43 years.14 
We know affordability is key to our 
commercial customers, and the 
E-Transit comes at a price that makes 
the transition to electric easy. 

The E-Transit has a targeted range of 
126 miles in the low-roof cargo van 
configuration*, well above the 74-
mile daily average10, “This makes 
E-Transit ideal for commercial 
customers who know their drive 
routes and often work in urban 
environments,” said Ted Cannis, CEO 
of Ford Pro. 

In addition, owners can improve fleet 
uptime and productivity through the 
Ford Pro Intelligence, a proprietary 
digital platform with easy-to-use 

 
Contents

  
FFuundndaamenmenttaallss

Our Sustainability 
Strategy 

Driving Innovation and  
Sustainable Growth

Putting  
People First

Protecting the 
Environment

Creating Responsible 
and Ethical Growth

Our Iconic Vehicles – continued





Maverick and 
Bronco: 2022 
Award Winners

Maverick
Named the 2022 North American 
Truck of the Year, the new 
affordable Ford Maverick pickup is 
the first-ever standard full-hybrid 
pickup in America. Also the most 
fuel-efficient truck on the market, 
the hybrid Maverick has an EPA-
estimated rating of 42 miles per 
gallon in the city*. It’s reinventing 
the modern compact pickup for 
customers who never knew they 
needed a truck!

*2.5L Hybrid powertrain. Actual mileage will vary.

The Bronco Wild Fund will help Bronco owners and off-road enthusiasts 
connect with the outdoors on a deeper, more personal level – ultimately 
enabling them to become responsible stewards of our nation’s treasures.” 

Mark Grueber, Bronco Brand Marketing Manager

2022 North American  
Truck of the Year

Bronco
The Ford Bronco was named the 
2022 North American Utility 
Vehicle of the year. Proud Bronco 
owners are able to enjoy our 
Off-Roadeo training centers, 
where both novices and experts 
can celebrate the great outdoors 
and experience off-road 
adventures. And a portion of the 
proceeds from Bronco® two-door, 
four-door and Bronco Sport 
SUV sales supports the 
Bronco Wild Fund and the 
responsible enjoyment and 
preservation of the great 
American outdoors. 

2022 North American  
Utility Vehicle of the Year

18  |  

Vehicle shown with optional equipment

 
Contents

  
FFuundndaamenmenttaallss

Our Sustainability 
Strategy 

Driving Innovation and  
Sustainable Growth

Putting  
People First

Protecting the 
Environment

Creating Responsible 
and Ethical Growth

Delivering Ford+

Ford+ is our plan for growth, intended to transform our company to win 
in this new era of electric and connected vehicles. It’s our roadmap to 
determine Ford’s trajectory for the next 10-15 years – creating the single 
biggest opportunity to create value for the company since Henry Ford 
scaled the Model T. Ford+ serves as our roadmap for the future as we 
move with speed and ambition to fulfill our Purpose to build a better world. 

Always-on Relationship with Customers 
Building a different kind of relationship with our 
customers is central to Ford+.

Ford+ 

We’re fueling Ford+ by further 
strengthening our core automotive 
operations and generating 
consistently healthy cash flow that 
will fund growth and create value.”

John Lawler, Chief Financial Officer

As we break away from the transactional, build and 
sell business model that has typified the auto industry 
for decades, Ford+ is characterized by close, enduring 
customer relationships based on our foundational 
strengths, improving financial performance and 
developing capabilities and investments in 
disruptive technologies. 

We made great strides in 2021 to create more value for 
customers through our connected services, as evidenced 
below. In 2022, we will be focused on moving even faster, 
with scale, towards always-on and the digital, electric, 
connected future of our products. 

• Launching BlueOval Intelligence: Ford’s next-

generation, cloud-based platform for integrating
electrical, power distribution, computing and software
systems in connected Ford and Lincoln vehicles

• Having nearly one million vehicles that are capable
of receiving over-the-air (OTA) updates – scaling to
more than 30 million OTA-capable vehicles on the
road by 2028

• Strengthening customer relationships, mobility, and

accessibility with digitally enabled tools like FordPass
and Lincoln Way, as well as incorporating online
ordering, simplified financing and renewal options,
vehicle pickup and delivery, and mobile repairs to
better serve our customers

19  |  

Distinctive products and solutions
Always-on relationship with customers
Ever-improving user experience

Turn around automotive operations, 
compete like a challenger

Care for each other

Treat customers like family

Capitalize on our strengths

Create must-have products 
and services

Disrupt ourselves 

Simplify everything

Partner for expertise and efficiency 

Modernize everywhere

Lead the electrification revolution 
in areas of strength

• Extending digital lifestyles by fully integrating best-in-

class technology

• Speeding detection and resolution of quality issues
using connected data – helping to raise customer
satisfaction and lower warranty costs

• Deploying distinctive technology like BlueCruise hands-
free driving and Ford Pro’s VIIZR Field Service tool and
EV charging solutions to improve the user experience –
and to capitalize on what is projected to be a $20 billion
market for such services by 2030

Contents

Ford
Ford 
FFuundndaamenmenttaallss

Our Sustainability 
Strategy 

Driving Innovation and  
Sustainable Growth

Putting  
People First

Protecting the 
Environment

Creating Responsible 
and Ethical Growth

Delivering Ford+ – continued

Leading the Electrification Revolution
As proof of our commitment to leading the electrification 
revolution, we are accelerating investments and 
increasing planned total spending on electrification, 
including battery development, to $50 billion from 2022 
through 2026. 

Creating a Business Dedicated  
to Commercial Customers
In 2021, we established Ford Pro: a game changer and 
growth accelerator for our commercial customers and 
our business – with anticipated company revenue of 
$45 billion by 2025, up from $27 billion in 2019. 

This will double our electric vehicle capacity to 600,000 
units by the end of 2023. 

Further, we are: 

• Anticipating 50% of Ford’s global vehicle volume to

be fully electric by 2030, including from:

– Mustang Mach-E, which is bringing new customers

to Ford

– F-150 Lightning, an all-electric member of the

F-Series family, America’s best-selling trucks, which
amassed nearly 200,000 customer reservations by
the end of 2021

This global vehicle services and distribution business 
within Ford is devoted to commercial and government 
customers, and led by Ford CV veteran Ted Cannis, who 
has been named CEO of Ford Pro and a corporate officer. 

Ford Pro provides customers with greater value and 
higher productivity through: 

• The industry’s most comprehensive and flexible range

of electric and internal combustion commercial vehicles

• Digital and physical services that can help optimize

and maintain customer fleets

• Public, depot and employee home charging of EVs

– E-Transit commercial vans, which will be on the road

for the next day’s work

later this year

• Bundled financing of vehicles, services and charging

• Investing in battery technology and equipping Ford to
design, engineer and manufacture its own batteries



Read more in Driving Innovation and Sustainable Growth 
section on p.41

Ford Pro creates a tremendous upside for customers, 
our business, and the communities we serve. As our 
customers grow and advance their electrification journey, 
we’ll grow. And together, we will help build a stronger, 
and greener, global economy.



Read more in Customer Experience,  
Marketing and Satisfaction section on p.74

20  |  

Transforming our Culture 

Ford+ Behaviors 
The Ford+ Behaviors embedded in the Ford+ Plan are 
critical to helping us transform and win. If the Ford+ 
Plan outlines what we will do to change our business 
for the future, the Ford+ Behaviors are how our team 
members will work differently to seize this moment 
and write the next 100 years of Ford’s legacy. They 
were developed with the input of more than 10,000 
employees who helped further define what our 
behaviors mean in practice at Ford. 

To deliver Ford+ and radically transform Ford from a 
traditional automaker to a business that builds lifelong, 
always-on customer relationships requires each and 
every member of our global team to work differently 
and adopt a Challenger Mindset. We are committed 
to helping our employees put these behaviors into 
action and are evolving our onboarding and up-skilling 
processes to cultivate exceptional talent across every 
level of the organization. We are also focused on 
recognizing and celebrating our Ford+ Champions, 
the employees who are embodying our behaviors 
and driving our transformation, through peer-driven 
storytelling and recognition programs. 

Leadership+ 
When all of our teams are operating at their best, 
Ford can build a better world. Recognizing the power 
of our leaders in enabling our future, in 2021 we 
established Leadership+, our mechanism for delivering 
key messages and activations to elevate and add 
clarity to the role of a people leader. Leadership+ sets 
leaders up for success in their role as Ford+ activators 
and change agents by: 

• Building understanding of Ford+ and the Ford+

Behaviors

• Redefining the role of a people leader and connecting

it to the delivery of Ford+

• Building new skills and habits that drive behavior

change, using Ford+ as the framework

• Leveraging supporting systems, tools, and processes

to reinforce behavior change



Creating Responsible 
and Ethical Growth

Delivering Ford+ – continued
Delivering Ford+ – continued

Ford+  
in Action 





Compete Like a Challenger
When the semiconductor shortage disrupted 
production at our Kansas City Assembly plant, 
Site Manager Fred Thome had to make some 
quick decisions to launch the E-Transit on 
schedule – a critical goal in our electrification 
plans. In just 24 hours, his team put together 
a plan to focus exclusively on building the 
E-Transit, expertly avoiding a four-to-six-week 
delay. Further, by partnering with the UAW and 
the Vehicle Manufacturing, Engineering and 
New Models launch teams, they were able 
to keep the launch on track for our customers. 

21  |  

Modernize
For commercial vehicle customers, fuel is a major 
cost, which makes fuel efficiency a major priority. 
That’s why Nicolas Seguin (Manager, Mobility 
Analytics, Global Data Insights & Analytics) and 
his team developed Fuel Advisor. Using Ford’s 
telematics platform and connected vehicle data, 
Fuel Advisor analyzes routes, tracks fuel 
consumption in real-time, and recommends 
where/when to refuel to save the most money. 
Fuel Advisor is another always-on tool, delivering 
value to customers long after their purchase. 

Disrupt 
With all eyes, even the U.S. President’s, on the 
reveal of the all-electric F-150 Lightning, the 
stakes were high. Pulled ahead by more than five 
months to set the stage for Capital Markets Day, 
a cross-functional team from across the business 
came together to execute an accelerated launch 
plan from conception to reveal night in just 10 
weeks. All in, the team is bringing the advanced 
technologies, new ownership services, strength, 
and capability of the electric future to our 
customers much sooner than planned.

Care for Each Other 
Last year, India went through a crippling second 
wave of the pandemic. Hospitals ran out of 
medical oxygen almost immediately. So, the 
Ford Mobility Division in Chennai, India took it upon 
themselves to secure and expedite an 
international delivery of oxygen concentrators and 
cylinders with help from their Ford colleagues in 
China. A shipment that should have taken weeks 
took only a few days – and it helped save lives.

 


A Conversation 
with Lisa Drake 
and Sue Slaughter

Lisa Drake
Vice President,  
EV Industrialization –  
Ford Model e

Sue Slaughter
Purchasing Director, 
Supply Chain and Sustainability

Lisa: Throughout our business, we’ve all been impacted 
in some way by the global pandemic. We – along with 
the rest of the industry – have been dealing with a global 
semiconductor shortage that was accelerated by 
COVID-19. It is forcing us to rethink the way we operate 
and make changes to the supply chain so that it is more 
simple, flexible, and quicker to react when problems arise. 
Sue, how has purchasing navigated through this situation? 

Sue: We are working together with our suppliers to ensure 
we have the supply we need to meet demand. And as we 
continue to integrate technology and digitally-enabled 
services into our vehicles, our need for computing power 
driven by things like chips, has gone up. We saw a similar 
challenge in our supply of critical materials as well. That 
is why it is so important that we not only think about how 
Ford can use our purchasing power to fuel our business 
needs, but also to advance our focus on sustainability.

Lisa: I’m proud of how our team has worked to be creative 
and to keep delivering value to our customers. This is such 
a critical time for Ford, when we are continuing to invest in 
our business and making the move toward electrification. 
This is where our partnerships play a critical role in helping 
make our business more resilient over the long term. 
Our work with Redwood Materials, for example, is looking 
at ways to integrate recycled materials into Ford’s 
domestic battery strategy. This is going to be critical to 
our sustainable leadership into the future.

to responsibly sourcing our raw materials. Moving toward 
the need for more batteries, it is more critical than ever 
that we maintain our sensitivity to how natural resources 
are used in our manufacturing process by conserving 
water, energy and raw materials and looking at alternative 
sources that we can use, so that we’re not so 
concentrated forward. 

Lisa: We’re also focused on vertical integration in our EV 
manufacturing and ramping up research and development 
in batteries with the launch of Ford Ion Park, as an 
example. BlueOval City in Tennessee, will become a 
vertically integrated ecosystem for Ford to assemble the 
next generation of electric F-Series trucks and will include 
a BlueOval SK battery plant, key suppliers and recycling. 
Our new assembly plant at BlueOval City is designed to be 
carbon neutral and to send zero waste to landfill once fully 
operational. This is all part of our focus on innovation and 
sustainable growth. The investments we’re making today 
will help us lead the electric revolution at scale, and in a 
way that has positive impacts on people and the planet.

Sue: That leads us into our aspirational goal of 
responsibly sourcing our raw materials. Moving toward 
the need for more batteries, it is more critical than ever 
that we maintain our sensitivity to how natural resources 
are used in our manufacturing process by conserving 
water, energy and raw materials and looking at alternative 
sources that we can use.

Sue: Yes, by design, our collaboration with Redwood 
helps ensure that recyclable materials in battery 
production scrap and end-of-life products re-enter the 
supply chain and don’t wind up in landfills. Doing that 
helps reduce our reliance on the existing commodities 
supply chain that could be quickly overwhelmed by 
industry demand. That leads us into our aspirational goal 

Lisa: That’s right. Part of our focus on ensuring a 
responsible and ethical supply chain is making sure that 
we are partnering with other businesses, suppliers, 
organizations and coalitions that have the same standards 
and commitments to a sustainable future as we do at 
Ford. There are so many aspects that come with that – 
from protecting the environment to respecting human 

rights and setting science-based targets towards carbon 
neutrality, for example. 

Sue: Everything we make and everything that goes into 
our products throughout the supply chain must comply 
with not only local laws, but also follow our commitment 
to sustainability. And a company with the scale that Ford 
has can really influence the supply chain and business 
practices across our entire industry. Our membership with 
IRMA – the Initiative for Responsible Mining Assurance – 
is an example of this. When we joined IRMA, it was our 
commitment to consistently achieving that goal by 
forwarding best practices.. We were the first automaker 
to join IRMA, so we’re leading change within our industry 
and more broadly across industries with similarly aligned 
priorities to make progress.

Lisa: Another way we can make progress is through 
grassroots investments that can address the root causes 
of some of the human rights concerns within the critical 
mineral supply chain specifically. Take for example, 
how Ford and the Ford Fund, our philanthropic arm, are 
working with international partners to empower women 
working in copper and cobalt supply chains in the 
Democratic Republic of Congo. We’re making lives better 
in a real and tangible way. Getting Ford involved in 
programs that support and promote women to work in 
our industry is important here.

Sue: It’s a unique program and I am proud to see how 
our partners are investing in the next generation of 
women-led businesses and interested in how that might 
help transform our industry for the better. Speaking of 
women transforming our industry – you have a new role 
at Ford, helping to lead electric vehicle industrialization 
as part of our new business model.

22  |  

Lisa: It’s certainly an exciting time to be a part of the 
team here. We’re investing in the areas where we are 
already strong and using those profits to power the 
transition to an electric future. Creating distinct businesses 
that are poised to compete and win helps us deliver for our 
customers, with the focus and speed of a startup at the 
leading edge of technology, supported by deep expertise 
in engineering and high-volume production. 

And as we head toward a future of zero-emissions 
transportation, sustainable manufacturing is core to our 
current and future business strategy. It allows us to 
continue to create good jobs along with positive impacts 
on people and the environment.

Sue: At the end of the day, I think that’s an important 
thing to note – we work hard every day, through the 
ups and downs of the supply chain, to make sure we 
have a responsible, sustainable and diverse supply chain. 



Living our 
Purpose

Our Sustainability Strategy

23  |  
  |  
23



Global Challenges 
and our Response

These technologies also have the capacity to increase 
access and mobility to new generations, making our 
transportation system more equitable and inclusive for 
more people, including people with a wide range of abilities.

Infrastructure is also top of mind, as we contend with 
supply chain disruptions, changes in consumer preference 
for safer modes of travel, and increasing emphasis on 
developing sustainable infrastructure. 

Technology trends, notably automation, AI, digitalization 
of tasks and services, are dramatically improving 
efficiency and productivity but may pose higher cyber and 
data security risks. The adoption of these technologies 
will also continue to shift the employment landscape.

People everywhere share the hope of 
making life better — for themselves, for 
their children, and for their business. 
Those dreams are our business.

2021 was a tumultuous year around the globe. The 
pandemic continued, as did the focus on climate change 
and racial and economic inequality. At the same time, 
supply chain issues and demand for goods contributed 
to rising inflation, which in turn exacerbated inequalities. 
All contributed to a global mood of uncertainty and 
urgency. Ford is committed to doing our part to address 
these shared challenges, driven by our purpose and our 
commitment to future generations. This is what 
sustainability means to us.

We know what’s good for the planet 
is good for our customers and our 
business. What makes me hopeful is 
that we have all of the tools we need 
to make a difference for generations to 
come. We now need to enact the right 
policies to use these tools effectively 
and consistently. At the same time, all 
of us need to consider a Just Transition 
as we move towards our electric future.”

Bob Holycross, 
Vice President, Chief Sustainability, 
Environment and Safety Officer

24  |  

Global Challenges

Building a Better World
Communities around the world are already feeling the 
impacts of climate change. The World Economic Forum 
(WEF) Global Risks Report 2022 identified climate action 
failure as the most severe risk on a global scale over the 
next 10 years. Ford’s 2022 trend report showed that 81% 
of adults, globally, say climate change makes them 
concerned for their future. Yet, more than half of 
millennials and Gen Z-ers believe that by 2035 we’ll have 
the technology in place to reverse the effects of climate 
change. And experts from the Intergovernmental Panel 
on Climate Change (IPCC) to COP26 have outlined the 
2020s as a critical decade to make progress and avoid 
the worst impacts of climate change.

The COVID-19 pandemic has brought a preview of the 
disruption that climate change could bring — highlighting 
inequality and inadequacies in our global healthcare 
system, disrupting economies and political dynamics 
within and between countries, laying social and economic 
justice concerns, and changing the way we live, work, 
and do business. 

All businesses continue to face a challenging economic 
environment, due to market forces such as rising 
commodity prices, inflation, debt, and labor market gaps 
– and the policies and regulations that impact them.

As climate change worsens, extreme weather events 
are becoming more frequent, environmental justice is 
receiving increasing attention since the costs and 
challenges of which fall disproportionately on 
disadvantaged and low-income communities and the 
developing world. The physical impacts of floods, 
droughts, heatwaves, and storms, combined with 

environmental degradation, threaten food, water, health, 
and energy security.

Protecting nature and its biodiversity is vital for the 
economy; all businesses depend on natural resources 
to support their commercial activities. Through the 
G7 2030 Nature Compact, the G7 Leaders called for 
the world to not only become net zero, but also nature 
positive. Nature and biodiversity were meaningfully 
incorporated into global climate negotiations for the 
first time at COP26. This represents a real paradigm shift 
in how nations, businesses, investors, and consumers 
view nature. Our economic activities should not only 
minimize impact, but also enhance ecosystems.

Consumer expectations and regulatory requirements 
for products to be made in an environmentally and 
socially responsible manner are increasing. Legislation 
is in development or has been recently passed requiring 
companies conduct actions to address broader human 
rights, environment, and responsible material due diligence 
in our business and supply chain. For example, the German 
Due Diligence Law coming into effect in January 2023, 
requires companies to address environmental and human 
rights in their business and through all levels of the supply 
chain to prevent or minimize risks.

Free to Move
The transition to electric and autonomous vehicles 
is creating a fundamental shift in driving and mobility. 
Increased vehicle connectivity, shared mobility and 
their enabling technologies (such as artifical intelligence 
(AI), big data & analytics, Internet of Things) have 
environmental and social implications, which consumers 
are becoming more aware of – from vehicle and road safety, 
to raw materials sourcing, to data security and privacy. 



Global Challenges and our Response – continued

Free to Pursue Dreams 
The widening income gap and the ongoing scourge 
of racism and economic inequality in the U.S. and 
around the world continue, creating tensions within 
and across borders.

Even with rising awareness and social justice activism, 
inequity gaps still loom large – both highlighted and 
exacerbated by the pandemic, which has had a 
disproportionate impact on low-income communities, 
ethnic minorities, and women. 

Consumers are increasingly expecting companies to 
respond to social and economic issues that impact their 
workforce and the communities where they live, work, 
and serve.

Social justice and diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) 
go hand in hand. It is incumbent on society as a whole, 
and businesses in particular, to innovate and adopt new 
ways to push for equity in employment, education, and 
everyday wellbeing, and to create greater DEI at all levels. 

Social justice concerns also extend to the automotive 
industry. At a time when technology is transforming 
vehicles and how they are made and operated, workers 
from manufacturing through customer service may 
need new skills and knowledge. This is a part of the 
Just Transition challenge.

At COP26 in 2021, a select number of governments 
supported the conditions for a Just Transition 
internationally. This includes ensuring environmental 
sustainability as well as decent work, social inclusion, 
and poverty eradication. The creation of new industries, 
new jobs, and new skills gives us the opportunity to 
also create more equal and resilient economies 
and communities. 

25  |  

Our Comprehensive Response
How well we adapt to these shared challenges from 
the global trends hinges on our ability to anticipate – 
and prepare. Driven by our Purpose, we are leaning into 
change and the disruption of the status quo to build a 
better world in which all people are free to move and 
dream – for generations to come.

A key aspect of this change is our ability to leverage 
technology to power our transformation to electrification 
and build a sustainable electric vehicle ecosystem. 
We are aligning our ambitions with action and leading 
by example within our industry and among global 
companies working to build a better future. 



Read more in Our Sustainability Strategy section on p.28

Building a Better World 
Achieving Carbon Neutrality
Ford has committed to achieve carbon neutrality worldwide 
across our vehicles, facilities and suppliers no later than 
2050, and we have set out a strategic path to accelerate our 
progress, backed by science-based targets. This includes 
cutting GHG emissions across the use of our vehicles, driving 
energy efficiency and conservation in our facilities and 
manufacturing processes, and partnering with our suppliers 
to reduce their environmental impacts. Ford is the only 
full-line U.S. automaker to align with the Paris Agreement 
and to stand with the California Air Resources Board in 
support of stronger vehicle GHG emissions standards. 
And we are proud to stand with governments around the 
world working to meet the goals of the Paris Agreement. 

We are taking into account that this transition will vary 
from country to country, and in some emerging markets 
it may take longer. Given their progressive policies, we 
expect the leading markets like Europe, United States, and 
China to be carbon neutral before the rest of the world.



Read more in:
Climate Change section on p.83
TCFD Report

n 

Free to Move
Leading the Electrification Revolution
Ford is building the future of zero-emission vehicles 
and breaking constraints to lead the electric revolution, 
investing $50 billion from 2022 through 2026 in electric 
vehicles and the batteries that power them. Electrificatio
amplifies the attributes our customers love, such as 
performance, capability, and convenience. Within our 
new line-up, disruptive technology allows us to enrich the
customer experience and improve performance, safety, 
and accessibility. We’re focusing on what we build and 
how we build them to make EVs that are sustainable, 
accessible, and affordable for more people. We’re 
reducing the effects of our operations and supply chains 
through world-class facilities, including our commitment 
to sourcing 100 percent carbon-free electricity for our 
global operations by 2035. And by using recycled and 
renewable materials in our vehicles, we’re reducing 
landfill waste and using fewer natural resources. 
A major component of EVs is the batteries that power 
them. We work with our suppliers and business partners 

for responsible raw material sourcing and enhance 
battery recycling, and to build out battery recycling and 
a domestic battery supply chain for our electric vehicles. 

Customers’ response to the electrification of our iconic 
vehicles – the F-150 Lightning, the Mustang Mach-E, and 
the E-Transit — has exceeded our expectations.

To provide EV customers with confidence on the road, 
Ford is delivering North America’s largest public charging 
network, BlueOval Charge, with more than 20,500 
charging stations and 70,000 individual charge plugs, 
and growing.6 Built-in charging solutions route customers 
to nearby charging stations, recommend where to charge 
on trips and provide easy access and payment via 
FordPass for a seamless customer experience.



Read more in:
Electrification and Connectivity section on p.44
Redwood battery recycling story on p.97
Carbon-Free Electricity and Energy Future section on p.91
Responsibly Sourced Raw Materials on p.68

 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Global Challenges and our Response – continued

Our team has been successful in inventing 
new sustainable materials because we 
are willing to try things in the lab that 
others aren’t. We had been warned that 
soy foam wouldn’t work, and today it’s in 
every Ford North American-built vehicle. 
Sustainability should be a consideration 
in every aspect of everything we do, and 
we need to be open to new, sometimes 
seemingly crazy ideas. It is tempting to 
think something won’t work and give up 
before you’ve started. If we could change 
that notion, then we can do anything!”

Debbie Mielewski,  
Ford’s Technical Fellow of Sustainability

Designing truly incredible electric 
and software-driven vehicles – with 
experiences customers can’t even 
imagine yet – requires a clean-sheet 
approach. We are creating an 
organization that benefits from all 
of Ford’s know-how and capabilities, 
but that can move with speed and 
unconstrained ambition to create 
revolutionary new products.”

Doug Field,  
Chief EV and Digital Systems Officer, Ford Model e

26  |  

Expanding Access and Mobility
We are investing to help make mobility more seamless 
and accessible, while improving safety, efficiency, and 
sustainability. While the policy and legal framework 
around autonomous vehicles has not been fully 
developed, we remain focused on improving the 
technology, building a robust self-driving system, 
and offering affordable mobility solutions. 

We are also considering the related issues of safety and 
data security. First, our customers and other stakeholders 
must trust that autonomous vehicles will operate as 
designed and vehicle safety is a top priority. Second, 
Ford has more access than ever before to data coming 
from apps, location services, and driving habits, and 
the opportunity to pull data from customers will only 
increase. If data is handled correctly, we have the 
opportunity to improve our customer relationships. 
It is imperative that our customers trust our ability to 
protect their data and ensure their privacy. This is why 
we adopt a holistic approach that includes policies 
focused on transparency, responsible data handling 
and use, and choice. 



Read more in:
Mobility Solutions and Autonomous Vehicles section on p.50
Data Protection, Privacy and Security section on p.102
Data Privacy Policy

Supporting a Just Transition 
Ford identified addressing Just Transition as part of how 
we manage climate change, one of our salient human 
rights issue. We are developing a strategy where workers, 
communities, and our supply chain, as well as our 
customers, are being considered in the transition to 
a net-zero economy. 

Building a Diverse and Resilient Workforce
For decades Ford has enjoyed a strong employment 
reputation among traditional industrial companies. 
With the significant shift in skills needed to lead the 
electric revolution, we must prepare our workforce and 
compete for new talent in a more diverse, digital, and 
tech workforce. 

We’re investing more than $525 million in the United 
States over the next five years to train auto-technicians 
for electric vehicles. And we’re developing programs 
through which our employees can develop and maintain 
the skills they need. 



Read more in:
Human Rights and Supply Chain Management section on p.65
Human Rights Report



Read more in:
Human Capital and Diversity, Equity and Inclusion  
section on p.55

Protecting Human Rights
Human rights and due diligence demands on our business 
including our supply chain continues to drive improvements 
in the industry. In 2020, the World Benchmarking Alliance 
recognized Ford as one of the leading companies in supply 
chain management and the leading automotive company 
in performance against the Corporate Human Rights 
Benchmark (CHRB). 

However, the average score for automotive companies in 
the CHRB-benchmarked sector indicates improvements 
in respecting human rights can be made particularly 
in demonstrating management of risks within their 
supply chain.   



Read more in our Human Rights Report

Pursue Dreams
Building Ethical and Sustainable Supply Chains
As we strengthen our global sustainability commitment, 
we are faced with the challenge of bringing our global 
suppliers with us. With approximately 4,500 Tier 1 
supplier sites around the world, our robust and 
sustainable supply chain is of crucial importance, with 
transparency the key to monitor supply and performance.

Our strategy is to build supply base capacity that exceeds 
minimum regulatory compliance requirements and 
creates shared business value, primarily in four focus 
areas: protecting and respecting human rights, protecting 
the environment, responsibly sourced materials, and 
maintaining responsible business practices. 



Read more in:
Climate Change section on p.83
Human Rights and Supply Chain Management section on p.65



Global Challenges and our Response – continued

• Clean Manufacturing – Reducing further the
environmental footprint of Ford’s operations
through renewable energy, sustainable water and
wastewater management, waste management,
and the circular economy.



Read more in:
Carbon-Free Electricity and Energy Future section on p.91
Water Use and Stewardship section on p.93
Waste Management section on p.95

• Making Lives Better – Advancing economic

opportunity and equity for underrepresented and/or
disadvantaged populations including projects that
help widen Ford’s supplier and dealer diversity
networks and social enterprises that benefit under-
represented populations.



Read more in Human Capital and Diversity, Equity and 
Inclusion section on p.55

Making Lives Better – Expanding access to essential 
financing services and advancing economic opportunity 
and equity. Examples include supporting underserved, yet 
credit-worthy populations with access to credit or offering 
payment extensions to provide relief to customers 
impacted by public health emergencies, natural disasters, 
or other such events. 

Ford also has $15.5 billion in revolving credit lines which now 
include key metrics that further align our financing actions 
with our commitment to operate a safe, sustainable, and 
successful business – including how the company is leading 
the electric-vehicle revolution.

• Community Revitalization – Creating and renovating

spaces to provide employment opportunities and
access to essential services and amenities. Examples
include the redevelopment of Michigan Central Station
in Detroit’s Corktown neighborhood into the center
of a new mobility innovation district with community
hubs, open spaces, and shared amenities.



Read more in Socioeconomic Contribution and Community 
Engagement section on p.79

Winning businesses are financially 
healthy and lead in sustainability – 
it’s not a choice, they rely on each other. 
We’re again putting our money where 
our mouth is, prioritizing and allocating 
capital to environmental and social 
initiatives that are good for people, 
good for the planet, and good for Ford.”

At Ford Credit, an amount equal to the net proceeds 
from sustainable financing will be allocated and invested 
in two areas:

John Lawler,  
Chief Financial Officer

Clean Transportation – Offering automotive financing 
products for EV, Fuel Cell, other carbon neutral vehicles, 
or Plug-in hybrid electric vehicles which meet strict 
European emissions standards. Financing may also relate 
to installation of charging infrastructure for individual 
customers or dealers.

Financing our Future 
The Sustainable Financing Framework we announced 
in November 2021 – on the fifth anniversary of the Paris 
Agreement – focuses on our ambitious plans in clean 
transportation, clean manufacturing, making lives better, 
and community revitalization. 

Our dealer and supply chain network will be critical to this 
transformation. Our Sustainable Financing Framework 
outlines how we’re investing in environmental and social 
projects in this way – issuing an inaugural $2.5 billion 
Green Bond – is a first for a North American automaker. 



Read more about the Sustainable Financing Framework

At Ford, an amount equal to the net proceeds from 
sustainable financing will be allocated and invested 
in four areas:

• Clean Transportation – Designing, developing, and

manufacturing zero-emissions transportation, including
electric vehicles and the batteries that power them
across the full spectrum of design, development,
manufacturing, and recycling.



Read more in:
Driving Innovation and Sustainable Growth section on p.41
Electrification and Connectivity section on p.44
Redwood battery recycling story on p.97

27  |  



Our Sustainability Strategy

Our sustainability strategy is to make a positive
contribution to society and the environment.

A better world for all requires a future that’s inclusive, 
equitable, and sustainable. As we continue our journey 
to electrification and carbon neutrality, we are committed 
to a strategy that addresses our people, our planet, and 
our customers. It is at the heart of our purpose, and it is 
driving our path forward.

That’s why Ford is acting now to produce no-compromise 
electric vehicles like the Mustang Mach-E, F-150 Lightning 
and E-Transit. And it’s why we’re aiming to reach carbon 
neutrality no later than 2050, by reducing emissions 
from our operations and throughout our entire supply 
chain, while pushing the boundaries of innovation 
and technology. 

We’re reimagining how EVs – and the batteries that 
power them – are designed, manufactured, and recycled, 
creating an all-new electric vehicle manufacturing 
ecosystem. We’re also working closely with our suppliers, 
from factories to mines for raw materials, to both reduce 
carbon emissions and help the people and communities 
around them thrive. 

We are building a more equitable and inclusive business 
through our focus on making a positive impact. Through 
our community engagements we are making lives better. 
And we are building a culture where everyone feels they 
belong. We are committed to leadership in human rights 
and the environment in every single part of our business, 
because fulfilling our purpose depends on it. 

Our Strategies

Our approach to sustainability involves helping to meet 
the collective challenges the world faces, across a range 
of issues. We have developed these specific strategies to 
address them and achieve our Sustainability Aspirations 
outlined on the following page.

People Strategy
We are fostering a culture of belonging for every 
employee and creating the freedom to move throughout 
the organization and pursue their dreams. We are 
committed to our DEI north star: We are family. We 
celebrate our differences. We all belong. Guided by these 
principles, we are focused on building a workforce that 
is equipped to meet the challenges ahead.



Read more in Human Capital and Diversity, Equity and 
Inclusion section on p.55

Human Rights Strategy
We are formally committing to respecting human rights 
through our policy, We Are Committed to Protecting 
Human Rights and the Environment, we are also working 
with our supply chain to make sure our suppliers and 
business partners do the same. We are addressing and 
evolving our Just Transition strategy as we move towards 
carbon neutrality and electrification.



Read more in Human Rights and Supply Chain Management 
section on p.65 and in our Human Rights Report

Climate Change Strategy
Achieving carbon neutrality no later than 2050 is driving 
our climate change strategy. To achieve our carbon 
neutrality goal, we are focusing on three areas that 
account for approximately 95% of our CO2 emissions – 
our vehicles, our operations, and our supply chain. 



Read more in Climate Change section on p.83

Sustainable Materials Strategy
We are committed to recycling plastics and using 
renewable, plant-based materials in production vehicle 
parts. Our closed loop recycling system maximizes 
aluminum recycling in our plants and minimizes the need 
for primary metal. We aspire to utilize only recycled or 
renewable content in vehicle plastics.



Read more in Sustainable Materials section on p.96

Carbon-Free Energy Strategy
We are committed to reducing the effects of our operations 
and supply chains through world-class facilities, including 
our commitment to sourcing 100 percent carbon-free 
electricity for our global operations by 2035. To replace 
fossil-based generation, we’ll be procuring a mix of wind, 
solar power, nuclear, geothermal, biomass, energy storage, 
and hydro. 



Read more in Carbon-Free Electricity and Future section on p.91

Water Strategy
Our 2025 Global Manufacturing Water Strategy aims to 
continue Ford’s position as a leader in water reduction 
and secure optimal freshwater availability in local 
communities. We continue to integrate more water-
efficient processes and technologies as we work to 
further decrease our water consumption. 



Read more in Water Use and Stewardship section on p.93

Waste Strategy
The focus of our global waste strategy is to manage 
and minimize the waste we generate. We strive to 
reduce costs and keep waste out of landfill. We aim 
to eliminate single-use plastics from our operations 
by 2030 and aspire to reach true zero waste to landfill 
across our operations.



Read more in Waste Management section on p.95

28  |  

 


Our leadership in sustainability enables 
our business today, sets us on the pathway 
for a continued strong business for decades 
to come, and will help build a better world, 
where every person is free to move and 
pursue their dreams. 

Climate Change
Achieve carbon  
neutrality no later than 2050

Waste
Reach true zero waste to landfill  
across our operations

Eliminate single-use plastics from our 
operations by 2030

Air
Attain zero emissions from our  
vehicles and facilities

Energy
Use 100 percent carbon-free electricity  
in all manufacturing by 2035

Water
Make zero water withdrawals for 
manufacturing processes 

Use freshwater only for human  
consumption 

29  |  

Our 
Sustainability 
Aspirations

Materials
Utilize only recycled or renewable 
content in vehicle plastics

Safety
Work toward a future that is free from 
vehicle crashes and workplace injuries

Human Rights
Source only raw materials that are 
responsibly produced

Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
Create a truly diverse culture where 
everyone feels like they belong

Access
Drive human progress by providing 
mobility and accessibility for all 



Accelerating Progress

As we take leadership of the electric revolution, we can provide new sustainable vehicles and mobility 
solutions that positively impact health and safety around the world – from human rights to climate change. 
Below, we have summarized our progress, including examples of how we’re working toward them. 

Sustainability 
Aspirations

Goals 

Progress 

Links to 
SDGs

Climate 
Change

Achieve carbon  
neutrality no later 
than 2050

Read more
on p.83

Vehicles:
• Accelerate our electrification strategy
• Improve fuel economy across our

global vehicle lineup, consistent with
regulatory requirements and our
commitment to the Paris Agreement

Vehicles:
• By 2024, Ford will have the global capacity to produce 600,000 electric vehicles annually
• By 2026, annual production of more than 2 million EVs; expect EVs to represent half of global volume by 2030
• Investing $50 billion in electric vehicles from 2022 through 2026
• Joined RouteZero, a global coalition working towards 100% zero-emissions cars and vans globally in leading markets

no later than 2035

• Offer alternative fuel vehicles

• Ford Maverick pickup is the first-ever standard full-hybrid pickup in America, and the most fuel-efficient truck on the

market with an EPA-estimated rating of 42 miles per gallon in the city*

• All diesel vehicles are compatible with low-level biodiesel blends (B20 in U.S., B7 in Europe). Also in Europe certain

vehicles are compatible with paraffinic diesel (EN 15940) such as HVO/E-diesel. Paraffinic diesel can be blended with
standard fossil diesel fuel resulting in up to 33% renewable content.

Facilities:
• Reduce global facility GHG emissions

Facilities:
• Achieved a 35% reduction in our absolute manufacturing GHG footprint since 2017 through improved energy efficiency

by 18% (2019–2023)

and conservation at our facilities and in our manufacturing processes

• Ford and SK Innovation plan to invest $11.4 billion and create nearly 11,000 new jobs in Tennessee and Kentucky with

production of the electric vehicles and lithium-ion batteries in 2025, creating our first greenfield carbon neutral facilities

• Invested $1 billion to modernize our vehicle assembly facility in Cologne to turn it into the Ford Cologne

Electrification Center

• Joined the U.S. Department of Energy’s Better Climate Challenge to reduce GHG emissions from our facilities by at

least half by 2030

Suppliers:
• Establish baseline for supplier CO2

emissions and develop a joint roadmap
for performance improvements

• Work with selected suppliers to reduce
our collective environmental footprint
through PACE

Suppliers:
• Received GHG emissions data from 262 production suppliers (12% more than last year) using CDP Supply Chain program’s Climate Change questionnaire
• Shared GHG emission reduction best practices with nearly 80 key Tier 1 suppliers through PACE
• Increased FastPACE participation by over 60% from 2020, sharing Ford best practices in GHG emission reduction

with suppliers from China, India, Thailand, and South Africa

*2.5L Hybrid powertrain. Actual mileage will vary.


Accelerating Progress – continued

Sustainability  
Aspirations

Goals 

Progress 

Links to 
SDGs

Air emissions reductions 
other than CO2

•  The tailpipe emissions of our vehicle fleet will drop significantly as our EV sales percentage grows
•  Working to reduce vehicle emissions of non-CO2 pollutants, in accordance with increasingly stringent standards 

around the world

•  Ford manufacturing facilities in China have reduced VOC emissions by more than 600 tons per year since 2015 

through various management and engineering investment measures, contributing to cleaner air

•  Shared air emission reduction best practices with nearly 80 key Tier 1 suppliers through PACE

Achieve 32% renewable electricity 
by 2023 and 100% carbon free 
electricity by 2035

•  Global amount of renewable electricity for 2021 was 32.4%
•  Dearborn truck plant, Michigan assembly plant and several new buildings on our Research and Engineering and 

Corktown campuses are powered by 100% locally sourced renewable electricity

•  All remaining manufacturing and large commercial facilities in Michigan will be sourced with 100 percent carbon-free 

electricity by 2025

Air

Attain zero emissions  
from our vehicles  
and facilities

Read more  
on p.92

Energy

Use 100 percent carbon-free 
electricity in all manufacturing 
by 2035



Read more  
on p.91

31  |  

 
 
 


Accelerating Progress – continued

Sustainability 
Aspirations

Goals 

Progress 

Links to 
SDGs

Waste

Reach true zero waste to 
landfill across our operations

Eliminate single-use plastics 
from our operations by 2030



Read more  
on p.95

Water

Make zero water withdrawals 
for manufacturing processes

Use freshwater only for 
human consumption



Read more  
on p.93

Reduce waste to landfill by 35% when 
measured in kg per unit

• Beginning in the third quarter of 2021, Ford manufacturing plants in China have achieved zero waste to landfill (ZWTL).
Waste generated in all factories are either being managed for thermal destruction with or without energy recovery or
recycled, instead of being sent to landfills for final disposal

• 89 zero waste to landfill (ZWTL) sites globally, including manufacturing and non-manufacturing sites
• 74% of manufacturing facilities are true ZWTL
• In 2021, Ford facilities globally sent approximately 16,300 metric tons of waste to landfill, 7% less than in 2020

Reduce general trash by 25% when 
measured in kg per unit

• Standardizing the tracking and sorting of waste to increase recycling and reuse

Improve waste avoidance by 15% 
when measured in kg per unit

• Implementing technologies and programs that minimize waste
• Working with suppliers to increase the use of eco-friendly packaging

Work with selected suppliers to reduce 
our collective environmental footprint

• Shared waste reduction best practices with nearly 80 key Tier 1 suppliers through PACE
• Increased FastPACE participation by over 60% from 2020, sharing Ford best practices in waste reduction with

suppliers from China, India, Thailand, and South Africa

Reduce absolute freshwater use by 
15% by 2025

Continue to work towards using 
freshwater sources for human 
consumption 

• More than 12.5 billion gallons of water saved since 2000

• Installed more non-water-based technologies and are using alternative sources such as other companies’

treated wastewater

• Increased the use of offsite alternative water by 6%
• Incorporating more water processes and technologies in our assembly plants, including water reuse and

recycling systems

Work with selected suppliers to 
reduce our collective environmental 
footprint through PACE

• PACE suppliers expect to save an estimated 182 million gallons of water in their operations from 2020 to 2030
• Increased FastPACE participation by over 60% from 2020, sharing Ford best practices in water conservation

with suppliers from China, India, Thailand, and South Africa

Engage with our supply chain 
to understand and reduce its 
water footprint

• 196 of our suppliers (14% increase over last year) responded to the CDP Water questionnaire

32  |  



Accelerating Progress – continued

Sustainability 
Aspirations

Goals 

Progress 

Links to 
SDGs

Materials

Utilize only recycled 
or renewable content 
in vehicle plastics



Read more  
on p.96

Safety

Work toward a future 
that is free from 
vehicle crashes and 
workplace injuries



Read more on  
p.62 and p.69

Expand our use of sustainable materials 
focusing on plastics, battery recycling, 
and sustainable sourcing

• More than 85%15 of vehicle parts and materials are recycled and reused at their end of life
• Established an interim target of 20% renewable and recycled plastics by 2025 in new vehicle designs for North

America and Europe, and 10% in China and Turkey

• Ford is the first automaker to use 100% recycled ocean plastics to produce automotive parts
• The closed loop recycling system used to build F-Series recovering up to 20 million pounds of high-strength, military-

grade, aluminum alloy per month.

• Collaborating with Redwood Materials to integrate battery recycling into our domestic battery strategy
• Since 2000, we have used 12 industry- and world-first plant-based materials in our production vehicles
• Researching the possible use of tomato skin, bamboo, agave fiber, dandelion root, algae, almond shells, and hemp

fiber as materials

• Created a cross-functional Responsible Materials Council to improve visibility to sustainable materials

Safety and quality:
Design and manufacture vehicles that 
offer innovative driver assist 
technologies

Safety and quality:
• For the 2021 model year, a total of 20 Ford and Lincoln nameplates were rated with 5-Star Overall Vehicle Scores in
one or more markets across the U.S., Europe and China New Car Assessment Program (NCAP) as of January 2022
• In the J.D. Power 2021 APEAL study, which measures owners’ emotional experience with their new vehicle, the Ford

Mustang Mach-E and Bronco Sport were first in their segments, Compact SUV & Small SUV respectively

Play a leading role in vehicle safety and 
driver assist research and innovation

• Overall, Ford was placed fifth among 18 mass market brands and Lincoln was fourth among 13 premium brands

in the J.D. Power 2021 APEAL study

• In the J.D. Power 2021 Initial Quality Study Lincoln improved and now ranks third among 14 premium brands. Ford
tied the industry average. The Lincoln Corsair, Ford Ranger, and Ford Super Duty all are ranked within the “Top 3”
of their respective segments

Health and safety:
Fatalities target is always zero

Health and safety:
• In 2021, we experienced three fatalities within our operations. Because each loss of life is unacceptable, cross-
functional teams worked extensively to identify and implement controls to address the hazards which created
these life-changing events

Zero serious injuries, attain industry 
competitive lost time and drive 
continuous improvement

Maintain or improve employee personal 
health and wellbeing

• In 2021, our global Lost-Time Case Rate (LTCR) was 0.35

• We continue to provide programs and services that help employees achieve good health and wellbeing and make

informed choices

33  |  



Accelerating Progress – continued

Sustainability 
Aspirations

Goals 

Progress

Links to 
SDGs

We are committed to protecting 
human rights and the environment

• Published our updated We Are Committed to Protecting Human Rights and the Environment policy
• Integrated the new Supplier Code of Conduct within Ford’s Global Production Terms and Conditions as a requirement

Human 
Rights

Source only raw 
materials that are 
responsibly produced



Read more  
on p.65

Help suppliers build their 
capacity to manage supply 
chain sustainability issues

Assess Tier 1 suppliers’ 
compliance with Ford’s Supplier 
Code of Conduct requirements 
and expectations

to conduct business with Ford

• Published first Human Rights Report and conducted our third formal salient human rights assessment
• Signed the Action Pledge for the UN’s International Year for the Elimination of Child Labour
• Just Capital rating, WBA social transformation score: #1 in auto sector and included in top 10%
• Since 2004, conducted more than 70 human rights audits to assess how our facilities align with our We Are Committed

to Protecting Human Rights and the Environment Policy

• Expanded our Sustainability Self-Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ) program to verify supplier alignment with new

Supplier Code of Conduct

• Achieved a 100% response rate from in-scope suppliers to submit an annual Conflict Minerals Reporting Template
• Initiated mica due diligence program
• Became the first U.S. automaker to join the Initiative for Responsible Mining Assurance (IRMA). Requested that

suppliers using mined materials communicate Ford’s aim to source materials originating from IRMA assessed mines

• Initiated supply chain mapping and auditing to understand the sources of the cobalt, nickel and lithium used in our

electric vehicles (EVs)

• Created a cross-functional Responsible Materials Council to improve visibility to sustainable materials
• Launched a project to empower women artisanal cobalt miners in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC)

34  |  



Accelerating Progress – continued

Sustainability 
Aspirations

Goals 

Progress 

Links to 
SDGs

Diversity, 
Equity and 
Inclusion (DEI)

Create a truly diverse culture where 
everyone feels like they belong



Read more  
on p.55

Access

Drive human progress 
by providing mobility 
and accessibility for all



Read more  
on p.50

Integrate DEI across the enterprise

• Firmly embedded DEI in our Culture Operating System to support our overall corporate strategy

Create an environment of inclusion

• Expanded our DEI employee audit to seven additional countries

Drive DEI-focused learning to create 
awareness, deepen understanding 
and lead with action

• Continued to use Employee Resource Groups to serve their membership, the business, customers and communities

around the globe

• Hosted second annual global DEI Week

Promote gender parity and equal pay

• Published U.S. Gender and Race/Ethnicity Metrics and our annual EEO-1 report, including pay parity data
• For the fourth year in a row, Ford was included in the Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index (GEI)

Continue to purchase from veteran-, 
minority- and women-, LGBTQ-, 
disability-owned, and small businesses

Deliver our autonomous vehicle and 
mobility plan, with a focus on 
emerging opportunities in mobility

• In 2021 we purchased goods and services worth more than $9.7 billion* from minority-owned suppliers, women-owned

businesses, veteran-owned companies, and small businesses

*Data updated May 23, 2022.

• Ford and Argo AI to launch initial commercial deployment of autonomous vehicles on the Lyft ride-hail platform in 2022

in two U.S. cities – Miami and Austin – with plans to scale

• Working with Argo AI and Walmart to launch autonomous delivery with Ford autonomous vehicles in Miami, Austin,

Texas, and Washington, D.C. — Walmart’s first multi-city autonomous delivery collaboration in the U.S.

• Remain committed to our planned investment in self-driving technology of $7 billion through 2025
• Continue to test autonomous technology in partnership with Argo AI. With new Argo Lidar, a critical component for a

safe autonomous service, integrated on Ford autonomous vehicles, it will allow Ford to expand services beyond dense
urban areas to suburbs connected by highways day or night

• Operating a fresh food delivery pilot with an autonomous shuttle out of the Ford Resource and Engagement Center in

Southwest Detroit through the summer of 2022

35  |  



How We 
Create 
Sustainable 
Value

As we advance our electrification 
strategy and realize our mobility, 
connectivity, and sustainability 
aspirations under Ford+, we 
increasingly focus our attention on 
services, systems and relationships 
that create long-term value, earn 
trust, and meet evolving needs to 
build a better world.

Our Purpose
To help build a better 
world, where every person 
is free to move and pursue 
their dreams.

36  |  

Our Enablers

Our Business

Our Positive Impact

Human Capital
• 182,789 employees
• 9,955 dealerships
• 1,200+ Tier 1 suppliers
• 11 internal Employee Resource Groups
• Ford Culture Cabinet

Social Capital
• Community engagement for 70+ years
through Ford Motor Company Fund, 

our philanthropic arm

• Partnerships with nonprofits, 

community organizations, and Ford

dealers in 50+ countries

• Strategic partnerships with investors, 

industry bodies, and partner companies

Financial Capital
• $50 billion planned investment 
in electric vehicles from 2022 

through 2026

• $7 billion planned investment in 

self-driving technology through 2025
• During the 2018-2022 period, expect 
to have incurred the vast majority 

of $11 billion in EBIT charges related 

to our global redesign

Manufactured Capital
• 48 manufacturing and assembly 

plants16

• 8 regional engineering and R&D centers
• Product Development Center
• Modernizing EV production

Intellectual Capital
• 3,286 global patents issued
• Connectivity and connected services
• FordPass network
• Global Data Insight and Analytics
• D-Ford human-centered design

process

Natural Capital
• 9.84 billion kWh of energy used
• 14.2 million m3 of water used for

manufacturing processes
• 12 renewable materials used
• Corktown Biomimicry Pilot project

8

7

9

6

1

4

2

3

Our 
Business 
Activities

5

1  Design

We consider sustainability 

2  Responsible Sourcing 
We require suppliers to have 

3  Logistics (inbound)

We encourage our logistics 

criteria to reduce our 

environmental and social 

providers to transport and 

vehicles’ impacts

standards aligned with ours

deliver material and parts 

efficiently

In 2021

Employees
• Health and wellbeing programs for employees 

and families

• Competitive salaries and benefits
• Employee training and development
• Culture of caring and belonging

Customers
• 3.942 million wholesale vehicles sold
• Refreshed product portfolio
• Access to EV charging networks
• Pickup and drop off maintenance service
• Improved vehicle safety and driver assist

technologies

Investors
• Strong balance sheet
• More transparent reporting for investors

Suppliers
• Training to build capacity to manage supply chain 

sustainability issues

• $9.7 billion spent with minority-, women- and 

veteran-owned companies and small businesses

• CO2 emission reduction targets collected and 

assessed to develop joint roadmap supporting 

carbon neutrality aspiration

• Sustainability best practices shared with suppliers

through PACE programs

• Responsible sourcing of raw materials

Communities and Society
• Invested $74.4 million in charitable contributions
• $700,000 to advance humanitarian missions of

149 employee-nominated nonprofits in 34 
countries during Global Caring Month

4 Manufacturing

We invest in lean process 

5  Logistics (outbound)
We encourage our logistics 

6 Sales and Service

• Delivered 2.5 million pounds of food through Ford

We’re reimagining customer 

community resource centers in Detroit 

and world-class factories 

providers to transport finished 

experience by listening and 

• Supported ongoing COVID relief efforts through 

to create positive impact

vehicles efficiently

adapting to their needs

partnerships with hundreds of community 

7  Our Vehicles in Use
We provide a safe and 

8 Mobility

We are exploring new 

enjoyable experience with 

solutions to support 

high-quality vehicles

urban mobility

9 End of Vehicle Life
Over 85% of our vehicle 

parts and materials are 
recycled and reused15

organizations worldwide

• Responsible mineral sourcing program trains 
women in the Democratic Republic of Congo 

Planet
• 35% reduction in GHG footprint since 2017
• 78% freshwater reduction in water use since 2000
• 89 true zero waste to landfill sites
• Fuel economy improvements
• Recycle millions of pounds of aluminum per month



Our Material Matters

Ford manages and tackles a range of sustainability issues. When it comes 
to effective and strategic sustainability reporting, we must decide on what 
information is most important and to whom. Our materiality assessment 
helps us identify, refine, and assess key environmental, social, and governance 
issues to inform our corporate sustainability strategy and reporting. 

Our Materiality Process
We conduct materiality assessments every two years, 
and carried out our most recent analysis in early 2021. 
We consider material information to be of greatest interest 
to our stakeholders, so they can make informed decisions 
and judgments about the company’s commitment to 
environmental, social, and economic progress.

The process involves:

• Identification: We created and maintain a list of
potential issues, grouped into four categories: 
Environment, Social, Governance, and Economic. 
These were identified through research that included 
a peer review, stakeholder interviews, a media scan, 
and an assessment of sustainability thought leadership 
from industry experts and associations.

• Prioritization: We continue to identify and prioritize key
challenges and opportunities that we address through
our Ford+ plan and other initiatives.

• Review: The results of the analysis were reviewed
by a range of internal and external stakeholders.
We made revisions based on the analysis to ensure
that our process and list of issues were comprehensive
and well understood, and reflected stakeholder views
and feedback.

Materiality Results
The analysis identified our most material issues as:

• Electrification and alternative fuels/batteries
• Vehicle product safety and quality

37  |  

• Economic performance
• Climate change, air quality and renewable energy/

energy future

We acknowledge emerging trends and assess them 
for inclusion as they arise. COVID-19 has reinforced 
the importance of putting people first and embracing 
disruption to evolve. The emerging trends identified as 
affecting our business are climate change, public health, 
geopolitics, safety standards, data protection, privacy 
and security, and sustainable cities.

Our Materiality Matrix
The materiality matrix plots the ratings of each issue. 
The x-axis represents the impact that economic, 
environmental, and societal issues have on our business, 
while the y-axis represents the influence on stakeholder 
decision-making. Issues found toward the upper right-
hand corner of the matrix are of higher influence and 
importance to both Ford and stakeholders.

Aligning with the thoughts of some of our stakeholders, 
we believe that:

• COVID-19 doesn’t represent a material issue in and
of itself; rather, it acts as an amplifier of the positive
and negative impacts of other material issues

• Just Transition and climate justice sit at the intersection
of many material issues, but do not need to be called 
out specifically 



Read more about on our approach to materiality and 
for definitions of material issues in our GRI Index in  
our ESG Data Book

4

1

7

8

5

6

2

3

12

9

10

13

11

Materiality Matrix

h
g
H

i

i

g
n
k
a
M
-
n
o
i
s
i

c
e
D
r
e
d
l
o
h
e
k
a
t
S
n
o
e
c
n
e
u
fl
n
I

i

m
u
d
e
M

16

17

15

14

Medium

Impact on Ford

High

Materiality matrix based on internal and external rankings, and validation workshop

1   Electrification and Alternative Fuels/Batteries

10   Data Protection, Privacy and Security

Vehicle/Product Safety and Quality

Economic Performance

 Climate Change, Air Quality and  

Renewable Energy/Energy Future

Employee Wellness, Health and Safety

Human Rights and Supply Chain Management

Transparency, Ethics and Integrity

Human Capital and Diversity, Equity and Inclusion

Mobility Solutions and Autonomous Vehicles

2  

3  

4  

5  

6  

7  

8  

9  

11  

12  

13  

14  

15  

16  

17  

Customer Engagement, Marketing and Satisfaction

Government Regulations, Policy and Engagement

Accountable and Inclusive Governance

 Socioeconomic Contribution and  

Community Engagement

 Sustainable Materials – Material Design and 

Management

Water Use/Water Stewardship

Waste Management

Environment 

Economic/Innovation 

Society 

Governance

 
 
 


Our Stakeholders

Building a better world can only be accomplished through collaboration. 
Finding a solution to the climate crisis will require meaningful participation 
from all of us, from government to environmental advocates and the private 
sector. Through dialogue with our stakeholders, we build trust, identify 
trends and emerging issues, and have the support we need to achieve both 
our business goals and sustainability aspirations.

Ceres Stakeholder Committee
As in recent years, a stakeholder team selected by Ceres 
provided recommendations for our future reporting. 
Representing a range of constituencies and expertise the 
most recent Ceres Stakeholder Committee convened on 
Feb. 28, 2022. Ford’s responses to their recommendations 
are summarized below.



Read more about our Stakeholders and how we engaged 
with them in our GRI Index in our ESG Data Book

Ceres Recommendation: 
Support strong fuel economy standards for model year 
(MY) 2027 through MY 2030. 

Ford Response: 
We believe that climate change is a shared global 
challenge that affects all of us. Ford has strengthened 
its support for commitments to limit global temperature 
increases consistent with the Paris Agreement. Ford 
seeks to achieve carbon neutrality globally no later than 
2050 across our vehicles, suppliers, and facilities, and we 
have set out a strategic path to accelerate our progress, 
backed by science-based targets. Ford is the only full-line 
U.S. automaker committed to doing its part to reduce CO2 
emissions in line with the Paris Agreement and working 
with California for stronger vehicle GHG standards. Ford 
supports EPA’s proposals to increase the stringency of 
fuel economy standards, which intend to deliver similar 
GHG reductions as the California Framework Agreement. 

38  |  

Ceres Recommendation: 
Provide more information about the full lifecycle 
impact of vehicles. 

Ford Response: 
Automobiles are among the world’s most recycled 
consumer products. Over 85% of vehicle parts and 
materials are actually recycled and reused at their end 
of life.15 By using recycled and renewable materials in our 
vehicles’ design, we’re reducing landfill waste and using 
fewer natural resources. Ford is the largest automotive 
closed-loop aluminum recycler in the world. We worked 
closely with our aluminum sheet suppliers to create 
unique alloys just for closed-loop recycling.

Our LCA-based studies evaluate potential environmental 
implications of vehicle raw materials and manufacturing; 
for example, recycled polymers, cradle-to-gate impacts 
of lithium-ion batteries, and additive manufacturing. We 
are collaborating with Redwood Materials to integrate 
battery recycling into our domestic battery strategy. 
Redwood’s recycling technology can recover, on average, 
more than 95% of strategic materials such as nickel, 
cobalt, lithium and copper.

Ceres Recommendation: 
Provide more information around data privacy and driver 
and pedestrian safety as they relate to autonomous 
vehicles (AVs). 

Ford Response: 
We have adopted a holistic approach to protect 
customers’ data and ensure their privacy that includes 
policies focused on transparency, responsible data 
handling and use, and choice. Ford has integrated 
cybersecurity with all stages of the vehicle lifecycle. 
This includes following established global cybersecurity 
standards (UNECE R155) for automakers and adopting 
the Automotive Consumer Protection Principles 
developed by the Alliance for Automotive Innovation. 
We proactively assess the impact of cybersecurity 
on new areas such as data privacy, Ford Co-Pilot360 
semi-automated driver assistance technologies and 
development of our fully autonomous vehicles.

Ford continues to collaborate with others to test 
autonomous vehicle technologies within several 
associations, as well as with lawmakers, regulators, 
and the public to realize the safety and societal 
benefits of autonomous vehicles.

Ceres Recommendation: 
Strengthen disclosure of supply chain risks and work to 
increase traceability and visibility within the supply chain. 

continual improvements in transparency and responsibility 
in our raw material supply chains. Also, in 2021, we 
introduced a 100% response rate requirement from all 
in-scope suppliers for our cobalt due diligence program. 

Ceres Recommendation: 
Make accessibility, meaning access to EVs and EV 
infrastructure, a focal point of Just Transition programs. 

Ford Response: 
We support a transition to electrification that is 
economically equitable. We are democratizing electric 
vehicles beginning with our iconic nameplates and are also 
expanding our charging network. Ford’s BlueOval™ Charge 
Network is the largest public charging network in North 
America offered by automotive manufacturing, with more 
than 20,500 stations (over 70,000 plugs) and growing.6 

And, Ford is working to make electric vehicles more 
affordable by offering equitable and non-discriminatory 
financing for products that serve underserved borrowers. 
Financing may also relate to installation of charging 
infrastructure for individual customers. 

Ford Response: 
In 2021, we initiated battery supply chain mapping with 
RCS Global Group to gain greater transparency about the 
sources of the cobalt, nickel and lithium used in our EVs. 
This multi-commodity responsible sourcing audit program 
will strengthen our responsible sourcing capacity and drive 



Risks 

The most significant risk factors applicable 
to our business are outlined below.

Operational Risks
Ford+: Our long-term competitiveness depends on the 
successful execution of Ford+, our plan for growth and 
value creation. Ford+ is focused on delivering distinctive 
and increasingly electric products plus always-on 
customer relationships and user experiences.

Climate Change: The risks and opportunities associated 
with climate change shape the way we do business, 
including our global carbon reduction strategy focused 
on reducing emissions from our vehicles, operations, and 
supply chain. Extreme weather events such as storms or 
floods can disrupt production or component supplies, 
while droughts can affect our access to water for our 
operations, especially in water-scarce areas. 

Public Health Issues: Our financial condition and results 
have been, and may continue to be, adversely affected 
by public health issues, including the health impacts of 
climate change and epidemics or pandemics such as 
COVID-19. The impact of COVID-19, including changes 
in consumer behavior, pandemic fears, and market 
downturns, and restrictions on business and individual 
activities, has periodically created significant volatility 
in the global economy.

Safety Recalls: Government safety standards require 
manufacturers to remedy defects related to vehicle 
safety through safety recall campaigns. Our vehicles 
could be affected by defects that result in delays in 
launches, recall campaigns, or increased warranty costs.

39  |  

Reliance on Suppliers: We depend on our complex 
global supply chain to deliver components for our 
vehicles. Our products contain components sourced 
from suppliers that, in turn, source components from 
their suppliers. A shortage of key components, such as 
the semiconductor shortage, can disrupt the production 
of vehicles. 

Cybersecurity Risks: As we develop and produce 
vehicles with increased connectivity, operating, and 
security systems are more at risk from potential 
disruptions. We rely on information technology 
networks and systems, including in-vehicle systems and 
mobile devices to process, transmit, and store vital data. 
Despite data privacy and security measures, we are at 
risk of outages, cyberattacks, security breaches, or 
natural events, all of which could impact operational 
systems, compromise sensitive or personal information, 
or negatively affect the performance and safety of 
our vehicles.

Workforce Stability: Our ongoing success depends on 
our ability to continue to recruit and retain a talented 
and diverse workforce that is highly skilled in engineering, 
software, technology, and other areas. Global 
competition for such talent is intense, with potential 
employees increasingly placing a premium on various 
intangibles, such as working for companies with a clear 
purpose, flexible work arrangements, and other 
considerations, and the loss of existing employees or 
an inability to recruit new employees could have an 
adverse effect on our business. Changes needing us to 
accelerate our ability to reskill, upskill and better develop 
our employees to complete our transformation to 
electrification also contributes to risk.

Macroeconomic, Market and Strategic Risks
Market Competition: Our products and services are 
subject to market acceptance as well as competition 
from other players in the automotive, mobility, and 
digital services industries. Although we conduct 
extensive market research before launching a vehicle 
or service, many factors within and outside our control 
can affect their success. For example, a shift in 
consumer preferences away from larger, more profitable 
ICE vehicles, due to rising fuel prices, a decline in the 
construction industry, or government actions or 
incentives, could adversely affect our financial condition 
or results of operations in the near term.

Geopolitics: With our global footprint and the increasing 
interconnectedness of the global economy, a geopolitical 
crisis or changes to/withdrawals from existing trade 
agreements could have an immediate and material 
impact on our results. The U.S. government has 
considered applying tariffs on automobiles, parts, and 
other materials that could disrupt existing supply chains, 
impose additional costs on our business, affect demand 
for our products, and make Ford less competitive.

Financial Risks
Market Disruption: Our business is susceptible to credit 
rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, 
and regulatory requirements, which may impact our 
ability to obtain unsecured funding at a reasonable cost. 
Moreover, if these events occur, Ford Credit may reduce 
the amount of receivables it purchases or originates 
because of funding constraints.

Government Incentives: We receive economic benefits 
from national, state, and local governments around 
the world in the form of grants, loan subsidies, and tax 
abatements or credits. These incentives encourage 
manufacturers to establish or increase investment, 
workforce, and/or production. A decrease, expiration, 
or clawback of such incentives could impact our financial 
condition significantly.

Credit: Ford Credit could experience higher credit losses, 
lower residual values, or higher return volumes for leased 
vehicles than expected. Credit risk (the possibility of loss 
from a customer’s or dealer’s failure to make payments 
according to contract terms) is heavily dependent upon 
economic factors such as unemployment, consumer 
debt service burden, personal income growth, and used 
car prices.

Pension and Other Post-retirement Plans: The 
measurement of our obligations, costs, and liabilities 
associated with benefits related to our pension and other 
post-retirement benefit plans requires us to use 
assumptions to estimate the present value of projected 
future payments to all participants. If actual results are 
less favorable than our assumptions, we may recognize a 
substantial remeasurement loss in our results. In addition, 
if our cash flows and capital resources were insufficient to 
meet our post-retirement obligations, we could be forced 
to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, 
suspend dividend payments, or seek additional capital.

Contents

Risks – continued

Ford 
Fundamentals

Our Sustainability 
Strategy 

Driving Innovation and  
Sustainable Growth

Putting  
People First

Protecting the 
Environment

Creating Responsible 
and Ethical Growth

Advancing STEM Education in the U.K.
2021 marked the fifth year of our partnership with 
Primary Engineer – an educational nonprofit 
organization that encourages children and youth 
ages 3 to 19 to consider STEM and engineering 
careers. Employees from Ford’s Dunton engineering 
campus volunteer their time at local schools 
training teachers on how to introduce engineering 

concepts, while helping lead a classroom-based 
engineering project that teaches students how to 
build electric vehicles. To date, the program has 
reached 65 schools and assisted 140 teachers and 
more than 3,483 students across the United 
Kingdom with the help of 45 Ford volunteers.

Legal and Regulatory Risks
Litigation: We spend substantial resources complying 
with safety, emissions, and other standards and 
regulations. However, we cannot ensure that employees 
or individuals affiliated with Ford will not violate these 
regulations. Moreover, compliance with governmental 
standards does not necessarily prevent individual or 
class action lawsuits, which can entail significant cost 
and risk.


Product Modifications: The automotive industry is 
subject to safety, emissions, fuel economy, and other 
regulations that govern product characteristics, and 
these can differ regionally, nationally, or within a country. 
New regulations are continuously being proposed to 
address environmental concerns (including those relating 
to global climate change and its impact), vehicle safety, 
and energy independence, and the regulatory landscape 
can change quickly. To comply, we may need to 
substantially modify product plans.

ESG Disclosure: The EU Sustainable Finance Disclosure 
Regulation (SFDR) came into force on March 10, 2021, 
imposing environmental, social, and governance (ESG) 
disclosure and reporting requirements on financial 
services participants, including investment firms and fund 
managers. The SFDR introduces disclosure obligations 
at both a firm and product level, requiring asset managers 
to disclose how sustainability risks are incorporated in 
their decision-making or outline the environmental or 
social benefits of certain products.

Read more in our Form 10-K

40  |  

 


41  |  



DDrriivviinng Ig innnnoovvaattioion an annd d  
SuSussttaaiinnaabblele G Grroowwtthh

Putting  
People First

Protecting the 
Environment

Creating Responsible 
and Ethical Growth

This is a transformative moment where Ford 
will lead America’s transition to electric vehicles 
and usher in a new era of clean, carbon-neutral 
manufacturing. With this investment and a 
spirit of innovation, we can achieve goals once 
thought mutually exclusive – protect our planet, 
build great electric vehicles Americans will love, 
and contribute to our nation’s prosperity.”

Bill Ford, Executive Chair 

42  |  

Overview

Everything we are doing – investing in 
electrification, enhancing connectivity, 
and developing new products and 
services – is to revolutionize and enrich 
the customer experience. 

Our approach is deeply rooted in customer insights, and 
we are creating an ecosystem around our products that 
drives deep loyalty. The foundation is our purpose – 
delivered through our Ford+ strategy – to help build a 
better world, in which every person is free to move and 
pursue their dreams.

We’re investing $50 billion from 2022 through 2026 
in electric vehicles (EVs), EV technology and charging 
infrastructure to remove obstacles and show 
customers the clear advantages of electric vehicles. 

From sustainability to performance to power and digital 
integration, Ford is creating capacity, capability, and 
convenience in our vehicles that were never possible 
before. And by working to close the loop on battery 
manufacturing, we can reduce emissions and even 
packaging. Through our focus on battery recycling, we 
will re-use valuable materials, recover precious metals, 
and help make electric vehicles more affordable. 

We’re investing in environmental and social projects.
Based on our 2021 results, we see the Ford+ strategy is 
working, generating good progress in our financial, social, 
and business performance. Through our new Sustainable 
Financing Framework and our inaugural Green Bond, we’re 
helping to drive human progress by investing in such key 
initiatives as Clean Manufacturing to create the future of 
industry. We also tied our Corporate and Supplemental 
Revolvers to sustainability-linked KPIs.

We will lead the electrification revolution. 
We are bringing electrification from the niche to the 
mainstream, electrifying our icons, including F-150 
Lightning, Mustang Mach-E, E-Transit and Lincoln, and 
rapidly scaling up production and improving affordability. 

We are expanding our capabilities to advance mobility 
innovations around the world.
Our objective is to power the freedom to move every day, 
helping to make movement more accessible and seamless 
in cities while improving the safety and sustainability of the 
transportation ecosystem.

Sustainable Development Goals
We are contributing to the following UN Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs): 

Our Sustainability Aspirations

Access: Drive human progress by providing mobility and accessibility for all 



Economic Performance

2021 Financial Highlights

Revenue: 

$1  36.3B

(2020: $127.1B)

Net income/(loss):

$17 

.9B

(2020: $(1.3)B) 

Adjusted EBIT margin17:

7.3%

(2020: 2.0%)

Adjusted free cash flow17: 

$  4.6B

(2020: $1.3B)

Adjusted EBIT17: 

Adjusted earnings per share17: 

$  10.0B

(2020: $2.5B)

$1 

.59

(2020: $0.36)

Full-year benefits from strong mix and  
net pricing, as well as lower warranty  
costs, more than offset the effects of the 
production losses and higher commodity 
costs. As a result, automotive EBIT of 
$7.4 billion and margin of 5.9% for 2021  
were both significantly higher than in 2020.”

John Lawler,
Chief Financial Officer

43  |  

A Year of Important Progress on Our Ford+ Plan
Our 2021 results show that our Ford+ Plan is working. 
We’re seeing real traction and making tremendous 
progress in both our financial performance and the 
strategic direction of the business. Revenue, net income, 
and adjusted earnings before interest and taxes were 
all up, even though we sold nearly 250,000 fewer 
vehicles than we did in 2020 because of industry-wide 
semiconductor shortages and supply chain disruptions.

We continued to turn around our automotive operations 
and ensure Ford is competing to win in our areas of 
strength. We added exciting products to our lineup 
including the new Bronco, Bronco Sport, Maverick, and 
Mustang Mach-E – and announced new vehicles like the 
E-Transit, F-150 Lightning, and the next generation Ranger. 

Our operations outside of North America collectively 
posted their best results since 2017, largely driven by 
the success of our Global Redesign efforts. We have 
drastically de-risked and rationalized our global footprint 
and product lineup, including restructuring our business 
in India, and have vastly improved our earnings and cash 
generation power in the process. 

We began to bring our vision of always-on experiences 
for retail and commercial customers to life, delivering 
over-the-air updates and fundamentally changing 
the culture of engineering inside Ford and driving the 
definition of next generation of connected vehicles.

Our reinstatement of the quarterly dividend underscores 
our confidence in the improving run-rate of the business, 
and our ability to fund all future calls on capital.

Accelerating Our Transformation, Unlocking New 
Growth Opportunities
Our Ford+ growth plan is predicated on delivering a 
company adjusted EBIT margin of 8% by 2023, and 
the consistent generation of adjusted free cash flow to 
invest in accretive high-return opportunities, including 
electrification, connectivity, and customer-facing 

technology. At the top end of our 2022 guidance of 
$11.5 billion to $12.5 billion in company adjusted EBIT, 
we would achieve that one year earlier than planned.

In March 2022, Ford accelerated our transformation by 
forming two distinct auto units – Ford Blue and Ford Model 
e – to enable us to compete and win against both new EV 
competitors and established automakers. Together with 
Ford Pro, these strategically interdependent businesses 
will help unleash the full potential of the Ford+ Plan and 
give us the confidence to raise our long-term company 
adjusted EBIT margin target to 10% by 2026.

To achieve this, we are increasing our planned global 
investment in EVs, including battery production, to 
$50 billion from 2022 through 2026. This will allow us 
to rapidly scale production capacity of our popular new 
electric vehicles to more than 600,000 by the end of 
2023 – and grow that to an annual run rate of 2 million by 
2026 when BlueOval City in Tennessee comes onstream. 
By then, electric vehicles will represent one-third of our 
global volume, growing to half by 2030.

With a focus on disciplined capital allocation, process 
simplification, and structural cost reduction, Ford Blue 
will serve as a profit engine for the company for years to 
come. It will generate the capital we need to fund a very 
exciting future – one that’s both financially healthy and 
true to our purpose – and continues to create long-term 
value for shareholders.

Corporate Issuer of the Year 2021
Ford has been awarded the International Financing 
Review’s (IFR) Corporate Issuer of the Year for 2021 
for funding a major electric vehicle push, while cutting 
costs and attracting the “greenest” of capital – 
the largest ESG facility ever to be completed in the 
U.S. market. Ford was the first U.S. automotive 
manufacturer to issue a sustainability-linked loan.



Read more about us delivering Ford+ on p.19



Electrification  
and Connectivity

Leading the Electrification Revolution

We are investing $50 billion in electric 
vehicles from 2022 through 2026 to 
electrify our icons, build out EV charging 
infrastructure, create a digital ecosystem 
with trusted customer service, and to 
take our suppliers on this journey with us.

We expect fully electric vehicles to account for 50% 
of our global sales volume by 2030. The demand for 
our first wave of EVs – Mustang Mach-E, E-Transit 
and F-150 Lightning – has exceeded our expectations. 
By the end of 2023, we will have the global capacity 
to produce 600,000 EVs annually to meet the demand. 

Read more about our iconic vehicles on p.14

Electric vehicle customers are looking for a differentiated 
experience – more digital with remote services, always-
on engagements, and products that get better over time. 
We are expanding our capabilities to serve these new 
customers and drive loyalty – and it’s working. More 
than 90% of Mustang Mach-E owners said they would 
recommend it to others.

We are also mindful that this move to electrification will 
affect our key stakeholders, including our own employees. 
This is why we are considering a Just Transition – to 
accelerate our ability to reskill, upskill, and better develop 
our employees and people in the communities where 
we operate. We aspire to further our purpose of building 
a better world and providing people with tools to help 
them move forward and upward. 

Read more about Just Transition on p.66

44  |  

Our electrification strategy is a critical component 
of Ford’s goal to achieve carbon neutrality globally no 
later than 2050. Ford is the only full-line U.S. automaker 
committed to doing its part to reduce CO2 emissions in 
line with the Paris Agreement and working with California 
for stronger vehicle GHG standards.

As part of this effort, Ford joined RouteZero, a global 
coalition working towards all sales of new cars and 
vans being zero emission vehicles by 2040 globally, 
and no later than 2035 in leading markets – to curb 
global warming. 

In addition to electrifying vehicles in high-volume 
segments, another key component of our strategy is to 
ensure access to lower-cost, high-performing battery 
technology and create a closed loop manufacturing 
system. Through Ford Pro, we will also help small and 
large businesses globally transition their fleets to zero 
emission vehicles by providing a suite of support, 
including EV consulting, charging, telematics, service, 
and financing.

And with more than 2,300 EV-certified dealers across 
all 50 states – and over 650 Commercial Vehicle Centers 
in the U.S., 90% of which are EV-certified – we stand 
ready to help customers make the transition to electric 
vehicle ownership.

50%

of Ford’s global vehicle volume 
to be fully electric by 2030

Ford has signed the ambitious RouteZero initiative which aims to reduce carbon 
associated with road transportation. We join more than 50 businesses, cities, and 
regions that have pledged to work together toward 100% zero-emission cars and 
vans globally by 2040, and in leading markets no later than 2035. Electrification 
represents the most transformative change of our industry in over 100 years.” 

Stuart Rowley, President, Ford of Europe





Lincoln Celebrates 100 
years and Announces All-
Electric Portfolio by 2030
As the Lincoln brand celebrates its 100th 
anniversary in 2022, plans are underway for its 
exciting, electric future. Over the last 100 years, 
Lincoln has pioneered such innovations as center-
opening coach doors, electric gauges, keyless 
entry, and symphonic chimes, while pushing the 
boundaries of elegant automotive design and 
introducing products and services that have come 
to define the iconic American luxury brand it has 
become. The anniversary comes at a pivotal time, 
as the brand looks to advance its commitment to 
electrification and make its entire vehicle portfolio 
electric by 2030. Lincoln also plans to expand 
effortless, personalized experiences by delivering 
an enhanced suite of connected services through 
the Lincoln Way app.





All-Electric Police 
Vehicle Debut 
The Ford Pro all-electric police pilot vehicle, 
based on the 2021 Mustang Mach-E SUV, 
became the first all-electric vehicle to pass 
the rigorous Michigan State Police 2022 
model year evaluation. Testing included 
acceleration, top speed, braking, and high-
speed pursuit, as well as emergency 
response handling characteristics. 

 
 






The New Ford 
F-150 Takes 
Power Capability 
to New Levels

Beyond its payload and towing 
capabilities, the F-150 hybrid and 
electric models both feature optional 
Pro-Power Onboard, a power back-up 
system that transforms the vehicle 
into a generator that can supply 
enough juice to run tools at your 
workplace or appliances on the go. 
The F-150 Lightning also has Intelligent 
BackUp Power, the ability to power 
your home in an outage for 3-10 days.18

Electrification and Connectivity – continued

Expanding EV and Battery 
Manufacturing 
Ford has electric vehicle manufacturing footprints 
across the world, including four plants in North 
America, as well as locations in Germany, Turkey, 
and China.

In 2021, we announced plans to bring electric 
vehicles at scale to American customers with two 
new massive, environmentally and technologically 
advanced campuses in Tennessee and Kentucky 
that will produce the next generation of electric 
F-Series trucks and the batteries to power future 
electric Ford and Lincoln vehicles.

To build these campuses, we are making the largest 
single U.S. investment in electric vehicles at one 
time by any automotive manufacturer. Along with 
our partner, SK Innovation, we plan to invest 
$11.4 billion and create nearly 11,000 new jobs at 
the Tennessee and Kentucky mega-sites. 

The all-new mega campus in Stanton, Tennessee, 
called BlueOval City, will be among the largest auto 
manufacturing sites in U.S. history, encompassing 
vehicle assembly, battery production, recycling, 
training and technical education programs, and a 
supplier park. The vertically integrated system will 
deliver cost efficiency while minimizing the carbon 
footprint of the manufacturing process, including 
the potential to use local renewable energy sources 
such as wind, solar power, nuclear, geothermal, 
biomass, energy storage, and hydro. The assembly 
plant will be designed to be carbon neutral with 
zero waste to landfill once fully operational.

45  |  

 
 


BlueOval City’s assembly plant 
will harness Ford’s global 
manufacturing expertise and 
cutting-edge technologies to 
deliver cost efficiencies and the 
quality that our customers expect. 
This will enable Ford to lead in the 
race to bring dependable, 
affordable, and advanced electric 
vehicles to even more Americans.”

Kumar Galhotra, President of Ford Blue 

Meanwhile, we are working with other automakers in 
markets where we don’t have scale but see opportunities. 
As part of our global alliance with Volkswagen, Ford will 
build a new electric vehicle for Europe based on its 
Modular Electric Drive, or MEB, architecture beginning 
in 2023. The arrangement, focused on small to mid-size 
electric vehicles, will lead to a highly differentiated 
experience for our European customers and expand 
Ford’s zero-emission capabilities in the region. 

And to transform America’s auto technician industry, 
we have made a $525 million investment across the U.S. 
during the next five years. The investment will go toward 
job training and career readiness initiatives to develop 
highly skilled technicians that can support our growing 
portfolio of connected electric vehicles. 

Electrification and Connectivity – continued

In central Kentucky, we will build a dedicated battery 
manufacturing complex called the BlueOval SK Battery 
Park with SK On, a wholly owned subsidiary of partner 
SK Innovation focused on the battery business. Twin 
battery plants on the site, as well as one in Tennessee, 
are intended to supply Ford’s North American assembly 
plants with locally assembled batteries for powering 
next generation electric Ford and Lincoln vehicles. Three 
plants will be capable of producing up to 129 gigawatt 
hours annually, which will be expanded by mid-decade 
to 141 gigawatt hours, enough to build more than one 
million electric vehicles. 

Our investment in BlueOval City in Tennessee and the 
BlueOval SK Battery Park in Kentucky sets a new standard 
for scale, sustainability, advanced manufacturing, and 
training for the next generation of technology leaders. 

After investing $7 billion in Michigan since 2016, and 
committing $700 million for the Rouge Electric Vehicle 
Center a year ago, we are investing an additional 
$250 million across the Rouge Electric Vehicle Center, 
Van Dyke Electric Powertrain Center, and Rawsonville 
Components Plant to help increase production capacity 
of the F-150 Lightning to 150,000 trucks a year. 

We are also collaborating with Redwood Materials, a 
leading battery materials company, to make electric 
vehicles more sustainable and affordable for Americans 
by localizing the supply chain network, creating recycling 
options for scrap and end-of-life batteries, and ramping 
up lithium-ion recycling. We believe battery recycling is 
essential for the success of an electrified future and has 
the potential to offer significant economic benefits.

46  |  

$11.4B

Planned joint investment 
in Tennessee and Kentucky 
mega-sites

11,000

new jobs to be created



Electrification and Connectivity – continued

Expanding Global Electrification Capabilities 
Our electrification plans are global, with facilities in 
Europe gearing up for the industry-changing transition. 

Germany
Spearheading our advance into an all-electric 
future is a new $1 billion investment to modernize 

Turkey
All versions of the next generation Transit 
Custom will be built by Ford Otosan – Ford’s 

100%

of Ford’s passenger vehicles 
in Europe will be zero-
emissions capable by 2026 
and all-electric by 2030

47  |  

Ford’s vehicle assembly facility in Cologne, one of our 
largest manufacturing centers in Europe and the home 
of Ford of Europe. The investment will transform the 
existing vehicle assembly operations into the Ford 
Cologne Electrification Center for the manufacture of 
electric vehicles, Ford’s first such facility in Europe. 
Ford’s new European-built, volume all-electric passenger 
vehicle will roll off Cologne’s production line in 2023. 

Romania
We will invest $300 million to build a new light 
commercial vehicle in 2023 at our Craiova 

Assembly Plant in Romania, including an all-electric 
version due to debut in 2024 – the first all-electric Ford 
volume vehicle to be built in Romania. With this all-
electric version, Craiova will become the third Ford facility 
in Europe to take on an all-electric vehicle production. 

Spain
We are also investing in an electrified future 
for our Valencia, Spain, operations with the new 

2.5-liter Duratec hybrid engine that will be built at our 
engine plant starting in late 2022 with an increased 
battery pack assembly capacity. Providing a bridge to 
an all-electric passenger vehicle future for Europe, the 
Duratec hybrid engine powers the Kuga PHEV as well 
as the Kuga, Galaxy, and S-MAX Full Hybrid models.

joint venture in Turkey – in Kocaeli, the home of the 
Ford Transit range. In addition, the joint-venture’s next 
generation Volkswagen 1-ton commercial vehicle also 
will be built in Kocaeli, adding valuable scale and 
enhancing the customer experience by bringing more 
technologies to market. Connected services co-
developed with commercial vehicle customers will also 
be designed to enhance the customer experience and 
advance Ford’s continuing commercial vehicle leadership 
in Europe. Late in 2020, Ford Otosan announced plans 
to invest more than €2 billion to increase vehicle and 
battery pack assembly capacity production at Kocaeli. 

United Kingdom
We are investing up to £230 million at our 
Halewood vehicle transmission facility, 

transforming it to build electric power units for future 
Ford all-electric passenger and commercial vehicles 
sold in Europe. This investment indicates the U.K.’s 
importance for high-quality automotive Power unit 
production – the complete all-electric assembly that 
replaces the engine and transmission in conventional 
gas or diesel engine vehicles. Halewood will be our first 
electric vehicle component in-house assembly site in 
Europe with production beginning in 2024. 

China
The first Mustang Mach-E manufactured in 
China officially rolled off the assembly line 

in October 2021. Manufactured at Changan Ford’s 
manufacturing plant in Chongqing, the locally produced 
Mustang Mach-E became available for delivery to 
customers in China by the year’s end, providing Chinese 
customers with the driving pleasure associated with the 
electric SUV. Ford inaugurated 25 electric vehicle stores 
in major metropolitan areas by the end of 2021 and 
expects to expand to 61 stores within 2022.





The Mustang Mach-E 
in China 
The award-winning Mustang Mach-E was 
officially delivered to the first customers 
in China on December 26, 2021. The locally 
produced Mustang Mach-E is being sold 
through a growing network of direct-to-
customer Ford Select stores located in major 
Chinese metropolitan markets. Currently, 
there are 25 such stores in China dedicated 
to the sale of Ford electric vehicles.

25

stores in China dedicated to the 
sale of Ford electric vehicles

 


Electrification and Connectivity – continued

Accelerating Battery R&D
To accelerate research and development of battery and 
battery cell technology, we announced the establishment 
of the Ford Ion Park global battery center in southeast 
Michigan. Here, state-of-the-art equipment will be used 
to pilot new manufacturing techniques that will help the 
company quickly test and scale battery cell designs with 
novel materials.

We also recently increased our investment in Solid Power, 
an industry-leading producer of all-solid-state batteries 
for electric vehicles. Showing great promise, these 
batteries are designed to power longer-range, lower-cost, 
and safer electric vehicles using existing lithium-ion 
battery manufacturing infrastructure.

Research Goal: Recharging EVs as Quickly  
as Gas Fill-ups 
Ford researchers have successfully completed an early step
in collaboration with Purdue University: we have invented 
a new, patent-pending method for charging stations that 
could one day deliver significantly more power compared 
to today’s leading systems. 

Using liquid as an active cooling agent, the concept 
uniquely changes the liquid to vapor and could combine 
with in-development vehicle charging technology to 
lower the average time to recharge electric vehicles. 
This innovation could one day deliver significantly more 
power to charge electric vehicles than today’s leading 
systems, making possible faster re-charging times if 
vehicle charging and other technology enhancements are 
made in parallel. Ultimately, this could lead to re-charging 
EVs as quickly as conventional gas station fill-ups.

48  |  

Developing Alternative Powertrains 
and Fuel Options 
As we launch electrified versions of our most popular 
nameplates, we will continue researching and developing 
alternative powertrains and fuel options across all our 
vehicles, to provide customers with efficient, low-carbon 
alternatives. This effort includes the development of 
hydrogen fuel cell technology, with a primary focus 
on medium/heavy-duty vehicles to offer payload and 
uptime advantages that provide total cost-of-ownership 
benefits. Ford is partnering with the U.S. Department 
of Energy to develop and demonstrate five hydrogen 
fuel cell electric Class-5 Super Duty trucks through the 
DOE SuperTruck 3 program. The project’s goals are cost, 
payload, towing, and refueling times that are equivalent 
to conventional gasoline trucks.

Since not all commercial vehicle operators will make the 
move from the conventional internal combustion engine 
to all-electric vehicles, powertrain technologies, from 
mild hybrids to plug-in hybrids, give them the power of 
choice as a significant part of the next generation Transit 
Custom range.

Alternative fuel vehicles can reduce GHG emissions on 
a well-to-wheels basis, which includes emissions from
both producing and consuming the fuels. 

Read more about our Sustainable Financing Framework 
and our investment in Clean Transportation on p.27

Expanding our EV Charging Network 
Along with a variety of home charging solutions, Ford’s 
BlueOval™ Charge Network is the largest public 
charging network in North America offered by automotive 
manufacturing, with more than 20,500 stations (over 
70,000 plugs) and growing6. Built-in cloud-connected 
navigation routes customers to nearby charging stations, 
recommends where to charge on trips and provides easy 
access and payment via FordPass for a seamless retail 
customer experience.

Meanwhile, we are teaming up with the nation’s leading 
solar company, Sunrun, to facilitate easy installation 
of the 80-amp Ford Charge Station Pro and home 
integration system to generate Ford Intelligent BackUp 

Power. Customers will also have the opportunity to install 
solar energy on their home to power their household with 
clean, affordable energy and charge their F-150 Lightning 
with the power of the sun. 

Additionally, our commercial vehicle arm, Ford Pro, 
launched Ford Pro Charging for managing commercial EV 
fleets and charging needs. To transition to electrification, 
fleet owners will receive software and commercial 
hardware infrastructure to support charging and energy 
management.

In Europe, the IONITY high-power charging network 
will grow 7,000 charging points by 2025, to create 
a supporting infrastructure as we accelerate the 
electrification of our vehicles.

 
 


Electrification and Connectivity – continued

As Ford continues the most profound transformation 
in its history with electrification, connectivity, and 
self-driving, Google and Ford coming together establishes 
an innovation powerhouse truly able to deliver a superior 
experience for our customers and modernize our business.

More than

30M

Power-Up-enabled Ford and 
Lincoln vehicles by 2028

Ford Power-Up Software Updates Strengthen 
Customer Relationships 
With Ford Power-Up software updates, we can deliver 
regular vehicle enhancements to Ford owners, turning 
connected vehicle learnings into continuous quality 
improvements, new features, and capabilities. New Ford 
Power-Up features and enhancements already have 
been sent to owners of Bronco, F-150, Mustang Mach-E, 
and other vehicles as part of Ford’s plans to produce 
30 million vehicles with advanced software update 
capability by 2028. These capabilities are designed to 
strengthen customer relationships with digitally enabled 
tools like FordPass and Lincoln Way, online ordering, 
simplified financing and renewal options, vehicle pickup 
and delivery services, and mobile repairs. Such tools will 
extend digital support to customers by fully integrating 
best-in-class technology. 

These services are expected to speed the detection and 
resolution of quality issues using connected data, which 
will help raise customer satisfaction and lower warranty 
costs, deploy distinctive connected functions like Ford’s 
BlueCruise hands-free driver-assist technology, seamless 
Amazon Alexa Built-in hands-free home and vehicle 
voice commands, new features and upgraded software 
content, and EV charging to improve the user experience. 
Such connected services are projected to be a $20 billion 
market by 2030.

Connectivity

In addition to electrification, the 
transformation of Ford vehicles includes 
making them “smarter” and connected 
through cloud-based technology, providing 
vital information and new capabilities 
to owners. 

Ford, Google Technology Powerhouse
In 2021, Ford and Google announced a unique strategic 
partnership to accelerate Ford’s transformation and 
reinvent the connected vehicle experience. Ford also 
named Google Cloud its preferred cloud provider to 

leverage Google’s world-class expertise in data, AI, 
and machine learning (ML). As part of this new, six-year 
partnership – and beginning in 2023 – millions of future 
Ford and Lincoln vehicles at all price points will be 
powered by Android, with Google apps and services 
built-in.

To drive ongoing innovation, Ford and Google established 
a new collaborative group, Team Upshift. Leveraging the 
talent and assets of both companies, Team Upshift will 
push the boundaries of Ford’s transformation, unlock 
personalized consumer experiences, and drive disruptive, 
data-driven opportunities. This may include projects 
ranging from developing new retail experiences when 
buying a vehicle to creating new ownership offers based 
on data, and more.

49  |  



Mobility Solutions and 
Autonomous Vehicles

The Freedom to Move

To expand real-world experiences, we are 
investing to help make movement more 
accessible and seamless while improving 
the safety, efficiency, and sustainability of 
the overall transportation ecosystem – 
especially digital capabilities for developing 
robust mobility and connected vehicle 
services that benefit cities and citizens. 

Mobility can help give people the freedom to move and 
pursue their dreams – including access to education, 
jobs, housing, and healthcare. Our vision for the future 
of urban mobility is a transportation ecosystem that 
helps improve how people get from point A to point B 
more seamlessly, deliveries to get people the goods they 
need, better parking, and traffic flow, while addressing 
such challenges as climate change and air pollution. 
We continue to collaborate directly with cities and other 
key stakeholders to help them solve their mobility issues 
and deliver our own mobility products and services to 
help make lives better.

Path to Autonomous Services Coming to Life:  
Lyft and Walmart
Ford remains focused on large-scale deployment of 
autonomous vehicles as a service – ride-hailing to move 
people and delivery to move goods – across multiple 
U.S. cities starting in our launch city markets of Austin, 
Texas, Miami, and Washington, D.C. 

While we continue to improve the technology and build 
a robust self-driving system with our partner Argo AI, 
we have also made progress over the last year in bringing 

50  |  

By testing and developing autonomous technology for 
urban areas, where customer demand is high, we are 
demonstrating the potential for autonomous vehicle 
delivery services at scale. 

For Mobility Solutions: The City:One Program 
The City:One program uses a community-centered 
approach to develop innovative mobility solutions that 
address safety, sustainability, equity, and accessibility 
to support the ever-changing mobility needs of cities 
and their residents. 

In 2019-2020, we hosted City:One Challenges in four 
locations: Indianapolis, Michigan Central Station in 
Detroit, Austin, and Mexico City. In working with those 
communities, we generated more than 400 proposals 
and secured nearly $1 million in funding to support 
tangible and equitable mobility pilots for residents, 
workers, and visitors. In 2021, multiple Challenge 
winners began activating their mobility pilots to deliver 
real-world impact. 

For example, in coordination with 20 local Detroit partners 
and eight high school students from Mercy Education 
Project, one of three Michigan Central Station City:One 
Challenge winners, the group launched a mobility hub 
in Roosevelt Park, Detroit. The young women, with 
community input, created a space that provided a 
welcome, safe environment with access to and information 
about mobility options including bikeshare and bike racks; 
access to Spin scooters and charges; and real-time 
updates on transit, as well as extensive lighting, murals 
developed by local artists and a waiting area with WiFi, 
charging, and seating. The hub also offered COVID-19 
vaccinations and testing through a partnership with Ford 
and Wayne Health/Wayne State University.

these services to life through our collaboration with Lyft, 
one of the largest transportation networks in the U.S., 
and Walmart, the world’s largest retailer. 

Together, with Lyft and Argo AI, we announced in 2021 
that we are deploying Ford autonomous vehicles, with 
safety drivers, on the Lyft network in Miami and in Austin, 
available this year. As vehicles are deployed, Lyft users 
within defined service areas will be able to select a Ford 
autonomous vehicle powered by the Argo Autonomy 
Platform to hail a ride. 

This unique collaboration brings together all of the parts 
necessary to create a viable autonomous ride hailing 
service, including the autonomous technology, vehicle 
fleet, and transportation network needed to support a 

scalable business and exceptional experience for riders. 
This initial deployment phase will lay the groundwork 
for scaling operations across multiple markets over the 
next five years. 

For delivery, we are working with Walmart and Argo AI 
to deploy an autonomous vehicle delivery service in 
Miami, Austin, Texas, and Washington, D.C. — Walmart’s 
first multi-city autonomous delivery collaboration in 
the U.S. The delivery service will use Ford autonomous 
vehicles equipped with the Argo Autonomy Platform 
to deliver Walmart orders to customers. This multi-city 
service makes it possible for customers to place orders 
online for groceries and other popular items, while 
providing autonomous deliveries directly to their homes. 



To improve how people and 
goods move in the future, 
we need to explore different 
mobility applications to 
understand how they can 
address real transportation 
needs in communities. We’re 
doing just that by conducting 
pilots and testing in and 
around the Michigan Central.

The design of the shuttle from the interior to the exterior 
was created by our Experience Design (XD) team whose 
mission is to understand the customer and create value. 
The team will conduct focus groups to engage with 
residents about the pilot and to better understand the 
challenges they face when it comes to transportation 
and their freedom to move. 

As a result of the six-month pilot, more than 20 residents 
will receive two deliveries per month complete with fresh 
milk and produce – highly requested items based on 
feedback – which is expected to provide an expected 
10,000 pounds of fresh healthy foods. 

We believe this type of autonomous application could be 
used in the future and could help support more frequent 
trips and deliveries in our communities. As a step in our 
journey, we will continue to use the open innovation 
platform at Michigan Central to build mobility solutions 
for the future. 

Mobility Solutions and Autonomous Vehicles – continued

Austin City:One Challenge pilot winner Tappy Guide 
assisted Austinites with disabilities by launching a service 
to help them move through their mobility journeys by 
using real-time location information, live video feeds, 
and call center support. The pilot partnered with multiple 
organizations to test and launch their services in Austin. 

More than 92 Austinites used the app to move throughout 
the City with the support of 37 volunteers who were 
engaged in disability, diversity, and accessibility training 
to offer concierge support for people using the Tappy 
Guide service. 

In 2022, the City:One program is focused on developing 
additional community-centered projects that integrate 
residents in the mobility innovation experience. 

Moving Goods: A Low-Speed Autonomous Shuttle
To improve how people and goods move in the future, 
we need to explore different mobility applications to 
understand how they can address real transportation 
needs in communities. We’re doing just that by 
conducting pilots and testing in and around Michigan 
Central. In collaboration with a Ford Fund and Gleaners 
Community Food Bank food delivery program called 
FREC (Ford Resource and Engagement Center) on the 
Go, we are operating a pilot through the summer of 2022 
to deliver fresh produce to mobility-challenged senior 
citizens via an autonomous low-speed shuttle. The 
shuttle will make deliveries each month from the Ford 
Resource and Engagement Center in Southwest Detroit 
to the Rio Vista Co-Op Apartments senior living center. 

Incubating Transportation Solutions 
During the last three years, Ford has been restoring 
historic buildings, including the iconic Michigan Central 
Station, constructing new ones and building out 
connected spaces in Corktown, Detroit to transform the 
area into Michigan Central, a mobility innovation district 
that brings together innovators to incubate and speed 
development of transportation solutions. While 
construction is still underway, innovation in the district 
is already happening. One example is a partnership with 
Newlab, a New York-based accelerator, that began in 
2020. Together, Michigan Central and Newlab have 
created two innovation studios. One to address mobility 
issues on a macro scale with an EV track focused on 
electrifying commercial fleets, as well as an AV track 
focused on the first and last 50-feet of a journey of 
moving goods. The second, a civic studio – Accessible 
Streets – designed to improve transportation and access 
in the neighborhoods around Michigan Central Station – 
upholding our commitment to the local communities. 

In addition to our work with Argo AI, the Ford Autonomous 
Vehicle team is collaborating with Saline, Michigan-based 
Quantum Signal AI LLC, a wholly owned Ford subsidiary, 
to  explore using a low-speed shuttle to operate 
autonomously on a fixed route with the help of remote 
operations and smart infrastructure. 

While the shuttle will operate autonomously with a safety 
driver, we are looking at how a remote operator from more 
than 40 miles away in Saline, could assist the shuttle if an 
unexpected condition arises, such as a fallen tree branch 
from a storm in the middle of the road. 

We also are building off of our work in Saline and Miami, 
and have installed multiple Ford-designed smart 
infrastructure sensor nodes along the shuttle test route, 
which can relay information to an autonomous vehicle, 
so it knows what’s happening on the ground before it 
even arrives at an intersection or other piece of roadway. 
For example, if the vehicle’s sensors are blocked by a 
truck, the node helps the vehicle to see that a pedestrian 
or vehicle is approaching. 

51  |  



Mobility Solutions and Autonomous Vehicles – continued

PAVE – The Partners for Automated Vehicle Education 
(PAVE) coalition is dedicated to educating the public 
about automated vehicles and the increased safety, 
mobility, and sustainability benefits they can provide.

PEGASUS – Along with other autonomous vehicle 
developers, Ford has joined the Project for the 
Establishment of Generally Accepted quality criteria, 
tools and methods as well as Scenarios and Situations 
for the release of highly-automated driving functions. 
This effort is intended to identify areas for international 
collaboration and harmonization on safety assurance 
for automated driving systems, and initiate steps to 
make progress towards collaboration and harmonization.

Among our ongoing autonomous vehicle regulatory and 
policy efforts are the Alliance for Automotive Innovation 
and the Autonomous Vehicle Industry Association 
(formerly Self-Driving Coalition for Safer Streets), where 
we are working with industry to advocate for the safe 
and expeditious deployment of AVs while promoting the 
benefits of the technology. Ford is proactively engaged 
at the UNECE to shape requirements to allow for the 
deployment of autonomous vehicles at the national 
level to engage with authorities to bring these vehicles 
to market.

In 2021, Ford joined the National Highway Traffic Safety 
Administration’s (NHTSA) AV Test Initiative. Through this 
voluntary initiative, NHTSA aims to provide an interactive 
tool that will keep the public up to date on the states and 
companies using autonomous vehicle technology on 
public roads, and we will support by sharing details about 
Ford’s autonomous vehicles, testing, and operations.

Improving Accessibility for People with Disabilities
Our customers want choices – to be able to pick a vehicle 
they like with the features and accessories they need to 
drive safely and comfortably. This process can be 
particularly challenging for people with disabilities who 
want to be as mobile as everyone else. This is why Ford 
is transforming its design thinking to be more inclusive 
for customers with diverse abilities.

The Ford Accessibility Program, offering a variety of 
adaptable vehicles to meet different needs and budgets, 
makes it easier for persons with disabilities to get on the 
road. To broaden these capabilities in a high-tech world, 
we launched a series of internal webinars and events to 
raise awareness and increase engagement across the 
company on issues of vehicle accessibility. These learning 
events have included direct engagement with a group of 
customers who have one or more disabilities, to advance 
discussions on inclusive design practices. Ford is also 
continuing this inquiry as a member of the Autonomous 
Vehicle Alliance (AVA) and as a sponsor of AVA’s most 
recent research on accessible and barrier-free 
autonomous vehicles, while actively participating in and 
helping facilitate informative webinar sessions organized 
by the AVA, Intelligent Transportation Society of America 
(ITSA), and other partner organizations. 

Collaborating for the Safe Deployment  
of Autonomous Vehicles
Ford continues to collaborate with others testing 
autonomous vehicle technologies within several business 
associations, as well as lawmakers, regulators, and the 
public to realize the safety and societal benefits of 
autonomous vehicles. Additionally, Ford participates in 
various consortiums addressing the safety challenges 
autonomous vehicles face through the development of 
industry best practices and standards. Some of Ford’s 
collaborative efforts include: 

AMP – Ford has joined with other autonomous vehicle 
developers in the U.S., to form the Automated Mobility 
Partnership (AMP), which is geared towards the use 
of real-world driving data to inform the development 
of automated driving systems.

52  |  

AVSC – Ford is a founding member of the Autonomous 
Vehicle Safety Consortium (AVSC), convened by the 
SAE International and SAE Industry Technologies 
Consortia (SAE ITC). This consortium is working together 
to advance safer testing, development, and deployment 
of autonomous vehicles through the establishment 
of industry best practices. The following AVSC best 
practices have been developed and released to date: 
Fallback Test Driver, Operational Design Domain, 
Passenger-Initiated Emergency Trip Interruption, Data 
Collection, First Responder Interactions, Metrics and 
Methods for Assessing Safety Performance, Adapting a 
Safety Management System (SMS) for ADS Testing and 
Evaluation, and Evaluation of Behavioral Competencies.



Driving Innovation and  
Sustainable Growth

PPututtitinngg    
PPeeooppllee F Fiirsrstt

Protecting the 
Environment

Creating Responsible 
and Ethical Growth

Building the  
Next Generation

Putting People First

53  |  



Our purpose as a company is to help build a better world.  
It is a core value, ingrained in our DNA since our company’s 
founding and it continues to drive us today. At the heart of 
this commitment is a pledge to care for each other and put 
people first in everything we do – whether we’re designing 
vehicles and experiences for our customers; caring for and 
engaging with our employees; or uplifting and strengthening 
communities through our philanthropic efforts.”

Mary Culler, President, Ford Motor Company Fund

54  |  

Overview

Our commitment to care for each other 
shapes how we operate. People come first. 
As we take action and move into an exciting 
future – from addressing climate change to 
making the transformation to electrification 
– we are dedicated to making sure that all
feel welcome and included.

Because when we build a better world for our employees, 
suppliers, dealers, community partners, and, of course, 
customers, we continue to earn trust and succeed as a 
company. And when we ensure a future that’s inclusive, 
equitable and sustainable, we change the world in the 
right way. 

We prioritize health and safety.
Ford has a commitment to deliver the highest level 
of safety and health to ensure the wellbeing of our 
customers and employees, and the broader communities 
where we live, work, and serve. 

We care for each other.
Our commitment to care for each other is a central part 
of the Ford+ Plan. We demonstrate our commitment with 
our actions, building our culture of belonging through 
training, awareness, and strong talent pipelines, as well 
as providing programs that protect the health, safety, 
and wellbeing of our employees. 

We treat customers like family.
We have a responsibility to our customers. Treating 
customers like family is a key principle of our approach 
in every interaction.

We’re focused on protecting and respecting 
human rights.
We empower employees to protect people and the 
environment, and expect that our suppliers and business 
partners do the same.

We’re engaged on developing a Just Transition. 
As a leader in sustainability and human rights, we believe 
we have a responsibility to the world around us. We can 
help with a Just Transition, support our communities, and 
contribute to a society that is more inclusive, equitable, 
and sustainable. 

We are bringing our vision of always-on experiences 
to life for retail and commercial customers.
By elevating the customer experience, we continue to 
save time, uplift, and deliver ever-greater value. Our 
end-to-end solutions help lower total cost of ownership 
for our customers, and in particular, reduce complexity 
for commercial customers.

Sustainable Development Goals
We are contributing to the following UN Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs): 

Our Sustainability Aspirations

DEI: Create a truly diverse culture where 
everyone feels like they belong

Safety: Work toward a future that is free from 
vehicle crashes and workplace injuries

Human Rights: Source only raw materials that 
are responsibly produced



Human Capital and Diversity, 
Equity and Inclusion

• Strategy, Trust, and Brand: These must be aligned
to achieve our aspiration to be the world’s most
trusted company.

• Workplace Experience: Transforming our workplaces

requires integration, interaction, collaborative 
technology, and flexible working. 

• Diversity, Equity and Inclusion: A diverse, equitable,

and inclusive environment is critical to executing Ford+.
We are fostering a sense of belonging by making
everyone feel welcomed, valued and supported, and
by creating a fair and equal playing field for all.

• Policies and Processes: We are co-creating solutions
with employees, focusing on the language we use as
well as how our employees experience those policies.

• Strategic Workforce Planning: To manage

organizational health and to deliver against our priorities,
we are redesigning how we work to be more efficient,
empower employees, and address bureaucracy.

• Talent Acquisition: In addition to investing in our team,

we are also focused on hiring exceptional talent to
support Ford+.

• Talent Development: We are upskilling and reskilling
employees in our transformation and Ford+ journey.

• Evaluation: We consistently capture employee

sentiment as a measure of our culture transformation.



Read more about us delivering Ford+ on p.19

DEI: Create a truly diverse culture where 
everyone feels like they belong

Empowering Our People To Improve 
Our Business
Ford is a family company in more ways than one. Our 
culture is anchored in shared beliefs and ideals and acting 
for the common good. We are fostering a culture of 
belonging for every employee and creating the freedom 
for them to move throughout the organization and pursue 
their dreams. Driven by our purpose, our employees are 
at the center of how we execute our transformation. 

The Ford Culture 
Ford has taken an unprecedented journey to shift its 
culture with a clear aspiration of where we are heading. 
We have a solid foundation with Our Purpose, Ford+, 
and our Ford+ Behaviors, and we have a plan to reach 
our aspiration to build a culture of empowerment 
and belonging.

We are capitalizing on new opportunities that are critical 
to our future – making our business more agile and 
competitive by reducing bureaucracy; rethinking how 
we work and deploying new technology to encourage 
collaboration and productivity; building our skills and 
capabilities; and acting with integrity at all times to 
build trust. 

Ford+ represents our holistic approach to shaping our 
Ford culture through:

55  |  

Our efforts to build inclusive work environments and 
foster a culture of belonging in our U.S. manufacturing 
facilities is ongoing. In 2021, Culture Managers in Chicago, 
Kentucky, Kansas City and the Rouge implemented 
the Manufacturing Culture Playbook, which provides 
a framework for plant leaders to assess their work 
environments with the purpose of building plant-specific 
actions that anticipate, prevent, or address issues and 
sustain positive cultures. By mid 2022, all plants in the 
U.S. and Canada will be supported by a Culture Manager. 

For more than two decades, Ford’s Employee Resource 
Groups (ERGs) have provided support, outreach, 
mentoring, and development to all employees. ERGs 
are sponsored by our senior leaders and are open to all 
our employees. Our ERGs host a range of professional, 
educational, and cultural events as well as supporting 
our diversity-related efforts in recruitment and 
community outreach.

Training and Developing Our Talent 
Our future success depends on our people. We believe 
that ongoing training, learning, and development are 
critical elements to providing employees with insight into 
organizational skill needs, developing learning solutions 
to address those needs, and enabling them to improve 
performance through skills application is critical to our 
transformation. We continue to make learning and 
development opportunities a central part of our brand 
to help attract and retain top talent. 

In 2021, we focused on energizing our 15,000+ people 
leaders to be catalysts, leading their teams to deliver 
Ford+, and building the foundation for long-term success. 

Engaging With Employees
Employee engagement is vital to advancing our inclusive 
culture. We foster dialogue with our employees at all 
levels of the business through channels including: our 
intranet site and website; corporate publications and 
reports; social media; webcasts and executive Q&A 
sessions with senior management; labor-management 
committee meetings; regular “Global Town Hall” 
meetings with direct updates from senior leaders; and 
Employee Resource Group (ERG) initiatives. We heard 
from thousands of employees throughout the year, giving 
us a significant insight into where we have done well and 
where we need to apply more focus. In 2021, 87% of 
employees surveyed, which were primarily salaried 
employees, stated that they have the flexibility to 
balance the needs of their work and personal life. 
Employee responses also indicate that employees are 
excited about what Ford can accomplish in the future.



Human Capital and Diversity, Equity and Inclusion – continued

We deployed a new set of global talent assessments to 
help identify capability gaps across the organization, in 
the context of Ford+. In response, new developmental 
experiences for executives and people leaders are being 
designed and implemented. From a learning standpoint, 
focus areas include digital transformation, DEI, and new 
ways of working. 

We have begun to replicate the Ford Software Academy 
model across other areas, including Leadership and 
Manufacturing. The transformation from internal-
combustion-engine to electric vehicles demonstrates 
the opportunity to upskill and reskill our employees as 
part of a Just Transition strategy, as well as remaining 
competitive in the industry. 

Read more about the Software Academy on p.60

The Leadership Academy now includes a collection of 
learning journeys specifically designed to address each 
leader’s needs based on where they are in the leadership 
lifecycle. Each journey promises a fulfilling experience 
designed to Care for, Inspire, and Empower our leaders. 
The Ford Leader Experience (FLX), the journey for those 
making the transition to leadership at Ford, focuses on self-
awareness as well as the mindsets and skill sets needed 
to develop others and build a high-performing team. 

Mentoring is also a key strategy to engage our employees 
and help them grow. 2022 brings the launch of 
Mentoring@Ford, a global online tool to match employees 
with a mentor or a mentee. 

In 2022, we will also focus on launching our Professional 
Development Journey for every employee, independent 
of level, skill team, or region. The self directed learning 
guide aims to help employees excel in the skills needed 
to take ownership of and navigate their career and 
achieve success. The program will focus on four key skill 
set areas and spotlight the crucial Foundational Skills of 
self-awareness, growth mindset, and learning agility.

56  |  

Developing Skilled Trades 
Our commitment to talent development is also 
illustrated in the development of our skilled trades 
workforce. Ford has committed $5 million in ongoing 
capital investment into the UAW-Ford Technical 
Training Center (TTC). In partnership with local 
community colleges, local, state and federal agencies, 
and union leaders, the TTC is a world-class center for 
apprentice training development and skilled trades 
recruiting and training. In 2021, almost 1,800 participants 
utilized training at the TTC as part of their development.

Diversity, Equity & Inclusion is 
not a program or initiative at 
Ford. It’s about embedding 
DEI into how we operate as a 
company, while honoring the 
one basic need common to 
every single human on the 
planet: the need to belong.”

Lori Costew, Chief Diversity Officer 

Developing People in Emerging Markets
Our International Markets Group (IMG) consists primarily 
of employees in countries recognized as emerging 
markets. Ford is working aggressively to deliver top 
quality learning resources to employees in these 
countries to help them develop skills necessary to 
succeed in the global economy and prepare them for 
the transition to electrification. 

Employees in these markets routinely access learning 
resources supporting development in critical business 
skills that include data analytics, design thinking, and 
electrification, along with power skills that include 
leadership, diversity and inclusion, and cross-cultural 
competence. The ability to conduct self-ratings for skills 
has also been instrumental in preparing for the workforce 
of tomorrow, with over 6,000 skills rated within IMG and 
96,300 skills rated overall within Ford.

We are actively reviewing opportunities to expand access 
to learning resources to help our hourly workforce 
overcome barriers that inhibit self-development and 
individual growth. 

Attracting Tomorrow’s Talent
Tomorrow’s opportunities call for candidates with 
experiences of all kinds. Inclusive hiring is the foundation 
of what we believe and what we do. At Ford, we 
understand that our differences, and our uniqueness, 
help make us stronger and more innovative; they also 
reflect the customers we serve.

We’re expanding our approach, our reach and shifting our 
skill and degree requirements to attract great talent in a 
competitive environment. We are also evolving how and 
where we source our talent as many employees are no 
longer bound to physical locations. 

AI is helping us eliminate bias in the recruitment process 
by putting students in front of us that we might never 
have considered before (and vice versa). This is a shift 
from where we were just two years ago where we 
recruited from a set list of schools. We now recruit from 
anywhere as part of our model and are able to go where 
the talent exists.

In our U.S. Recruiting, we have significantly expanded 
outreach to women, minorities, veterans, and people with 

disabilities. We’re transforming campus recruiting using 
AI and are leveraging tech and platforms to reach 
new schools. We’ve opened attendance at recruitment 
events and removed the blockages which kept students 
from attending.

Exploring the Future of Work 
In March 2021, Ford announced an intent to shift to a 
hybrid work model for non-place-dependent global 
employees when people return to the office. To support 
leaders managing the transition to the hybrid work model, 
resources and training have been provided. 

Nonetheless, it is important that our physical work 
environments support the next century of innovation at 
Ford. We have accelerated our campus transformation 
plans and are developing world-class workplaces 
centered on integration, interaction, and co-location. 
For example, we’re transforming our Research and 
Engineering Center in Dearborn into a high-tech campus 
with a new, 2-million-square-foot building forming the 
focal point. It will be integrated into the surrounding 
community and feature a range of mobility solutions.



Human Capital and Diversity, Equity and Inclusion – continued

Through experiential learning and 
engagement we’ve been able to 
foster open dialogue across the 
company and build empathy with 
events like the Truth & Reconciliation 
Day in Canada, Juneteenth in the 
U.S., Global DEI Week, and the global
Day of Understanding. None of these
events would have been successful
without passionate employee
volunteers teaching and organizing.”

Amal M. Berry, Senior Manager, DEI

2021 Gender and Race/Ethnicity Metrics 

Of our global 
salaried workforce:

28.1%

are female 

24.8%

of managers19 are female

Of our U.S. employees 
(hourly and salaried): 

25.0%

are female 

34.9%

are members of minority 
groups, of which: 

2.2%

are Other Minorities

22.5%

are African American 

5.8%

are Asian

4.3%

are Hispanic/Latino

Of our 15 Board 
Directors: 

4

are women 

2

identify themselves 
as members of 
minority groups 

Of our 39 corporate 
officers:

7

are women 

7

identify themselves 
as members of 
minority groups 





Remote Employees’ 
Freedom to Move 
As the pandemic transformed the way we 
work, we found new ways to get things done. 
Working remotely all across the country, 
Ford Buyer on the Electrified Powertrain Team 
Leilani King discovered the value of work/life 
balance, saying, “Whether it was early morning, 
or I was signing on from a tent on the Oregon 
Coast, the opportunities remote work 
presented made me far more motivated about 
my job.” Leilani traveled as far as California, 
Oregon and Hawaii while still being there for 
her team. “I’m living our Ford’s Purpose in a way 
that was never previously possible,” she says.

57  |  

Embracing Diversity, Equity and Inclusion 
We can only achieve Ford+ when everyone at Ford is 
able to be themselves to do their best work. In short, 
we are committed to our DEI north star: We are family. 
We celebrate our differences. We all belong.

Guided by these principles, we are focused on building 
a workforce that is equipped to meet the challenges 
ahead – social justice concerns, DEI, Just Transition, 
and electrification – all important issues for Ford’s 
employees, suppliers and the communities we serve. 

Governance and accountability are core to making 
sustainable progress in our DEI commitments. In addition 
to regular discussions, quarterly updates with composition 
data are given to Ford Leadership and the Board of 
Directors. As a member of the CEO Action Pledge for 
Diversity and Inclusion, we have publicly pledged to act 
on supporting more inclusive workplaces.

DEI Audits and Improvement Plans
In 2021, we extended our U.S. DEI Audit to seven major 
markets – Canada, China, Germany, South Africa, Mexico, 
U.K., and India. The audits encompassed a deep dive into
each country’s qualitative and quantitative data through
focus groups, surveys, and interviews. We were able to
gain insights into employee beliefs, all with a goal of
developing a deeper understanding of how our team was
feeling and why. While culture and issues differ around
the world, a common theme emerged that not all our
team members feel like they belong. We listened and
now each Business Unit and Skill Team is committed
to continued action.

Another insight gained is we were not leveraging our 
ERGs enough. Now multiple ERGs including Women 
of Ford, Ford Empowering Diverse Abilities (FEDA), 
Ford Pride, Ford Employees African Ancestry Network 
(FAAN), and Ford Hispanic Network (FHN), are providing 

input into improving the employee experience, product 
programs, and marketing. For example, ERGs provided 
input to help the campus transformation team better 
understand the needs of our employees. Their partnership 
led to spaces with more inclusive designs, greater 
accessibility, the addition of wellness rooms, quiet zones, 
and gender-neutral bathrooms. 

DEI Data and Insights
Data visibility is essential to building trust internally 
and externally. Not only have we launched a new DEI 
dashboard for senior leadership, but we also provide 
regular DEI updates in our Global Town Hall Meetings 
and through our internal websites.

Through all of these efforts, the “Belonging” Index scores 
increased significantly across all demographics in our 
2021 annual sentiment (PULSE) survey.

 


DEI Art 
Challenge 





During Global DEI Week, Ford 
employees around the world were 
invited to participate in the first ever 
DEI Art Challenge. One-hundred 
team members from 11 countries 
expressed themselves by creating 
an art piece that showed what 
diversity, equity, and inclusion 
mean to them. 

Right: Jose Maia Neto
Below left: Peter Watson
Below right: Pustin Mccandles

Human Capital and Diversity, Equity and Inclusion – continued

Gender and Racial Diversity Goals
In 2021, we created Aspirational Goals to increase the 
gender representation and racial diversity of our senior 
leadership. These goals are tracked quarterly by every 
Skill Team and Business Unit Leader. We are seeing 
progress in the diversity of senior leadership – an increase 
in women leaders globally and an increase in racial 
minorities in the U.S. indicate that we are on track to 
reach our 2025 Aspirational Goals. 

Equal Employment Opportunity
Our EEO-1 report provides a snapshot of our U.S. 
demographics as of year-end 2021, based on occupational 
categories prescribed by the federal government that 
aggregate jobs with widely varying skill requirements. 

Approximately 95% of all Ford Motor Company hourly 
and salaried positions fall into just four of the 10 categories. 
The usefulness of this data for measuring diversity 
success, and for making direct comparisons to the 
workforce of other companies or other industries with 
different job structures, is therefore extremely limited. 

To address these shortcomings, Ford has developed 
a more robust supplemental report that disaggregates 
technical jobs in fields such as engineering and 
information technology, which pose recruiting 
challenges that are very distinct from non-technical roles. 
The supplemental report also provides more nuanced 
breakdowns of diversity at various managerial levels. 

We are committed to equal pay for equal work. 
Employee compensation in each market should be fair 
and equitable, irrespective of gender, race, or similar 
personal characteristics. Equal pay for equal work applies 
to all forms of pay, including base salary, incentives, 
bonuses, and other forms of compensation. 





Read more about our equal pay policy in our 
Human Rights Report

Read more in our U.S. EEO-1 and Ford Supplemental 
Diversity Report

Our DEI Recognitions 2021 
Awards from external organizations are 
proof points we are building the Ford 
brand around the world and help us attract 

candidates in the global competition for talent.

Internally we celebrate employees who serve as DEI 
champions. In 2021, more than 40 individuals and teams 
around the globe were honored with DEI Employee 

Awards to recognize their contributions in creating a 
culture of belonging. They were selected from a group 
of 300 nominations.

For the fourth year in a row, Ford was recognized on the 
Bloomberg GEI which tracks the performance of public 
companies in the areas of inclusive culture, anti-sexual 
harassment policies, pay equity, female leadership and 
talent pipeline, and pro-women brand.

58  |  

 


Human Capital and Diversity, Equity and Inclusion – continued

U.S. Racial Equity
Stakeholders and subject matter experts work alongside 
our Racial Equity Director to ensure equity in employee 
policies, processes and procedures. These efforts help 
reduce bias and remove challenges along the employee 
journey that might prevent equitable career development. 
One example is our Level Up Sponsorship program which 
matches high-potential talent from underrepresented 
groups with sponsors.

We’re also providing opportunities for our employees 
to learn and share their experiences with race. The Dare 
to Care in the Living Room series has brought insight 
and built empathy across multiple topics including the 
violence against Asian Americans and the experience 
of being women of color. 

Giving our employees a forum to share their experiences 
and reaction as they manage their response to social 
injustice issues outside of Ford is important to us. 
We worked with our ERGs to develop wellness sessions 
for members on a regular cadence that catered to the 
needs of our diverse populations. For example, we 
partnered with our ERGs to offer wellbeing sessions 
for our employees and UAW workers after the trial 
of Derek Chauvin in the George Floyd murder and 
with our Veterans after the U.S. troop withdrawal 
from Afghanistan. 

On Juneteenth, a federal holiday marking the celebration 
of freedom from slavery, we took action to acknowledge 
and celebrate this important moment in U.S. history by 
shutting down non-manufacturing operations for the first 
time in the company’s history. Employees stopped their 
work for 45 minutes for educational sessions about the 
importance of the day, including a video and courageous 
conversations. The manufacturing facilities celebrated 
by sharing an educational video and learning materials.

Building an Inclusive Workforce
Our FordWorks inclusive hiring program helps us deliver 
on-the-job training and employment opportunities to 
neurodiverse individuals. Equitable pay and continual 
development of FordWorks employees are core values 
of the program. In 2021 we were recognized by the 
Disability Equality Index (DEI), a joint initiative of 
Disability:IN and the American Association of People 
with Disabilities (AAPD) as a Disability Equality Index 
Best Place to Work, for the fifth year in a row. Our score 
of 100% demonstrates our adherence to leading 
disability inclusion practices featured in the DEI. 

Ford Empowering Diverse Abilities (FEDA) has several 
members who collaborate on accessible vehicles. 
Their collective expertise includes both hardware and 
software development. Emily Obert, co-president of FEDA, 
is an engineer who uses a wheelchair. She is part of the AV 
Experience Design team, and her lived experiences help 
inform better, more intuitive AV products and experiences.

DEI Education and Inspiration 
The global DEI audits also uncovered varying levels of 
awareness and understanding, which can impact empathy 
and employees’ ability to relate to others’ experiences. 
This is why we are investing heavily in opportunities for 
learning and education. Our DEI Learning Strategy 
follows the sequence: Creating Awareness, Deepening 
Our Understanding, and Leading with Action. 

We increased traditional learning opportunities, with 
courses including Women Rising, Understanding 
Systemic Racism, and Men as Allies. Significant learning 
resources are also available on demand on the Degreed 
interactive learning platform. 

Degreed offers all Ford salaried employees diverse 
learning opportunities for professional and personal 
development. The curated educational resources (over 
250,000 courses and 3 million articles/videos) cover 
numerous topics, including many dimensions of diversity, 
equity, and inclusion and allow for a self-guided learning 
approach. The DEI Learning Plan on Degreed is designed 
to meet people where they are on their DEI journey 
and provide a space to create awareness, deepen 
understanding, and lead with action to cultivate a culture 
of belonging for all. As of the end of January, we have 
52,670 total users in the platform.

In U.S. manufacturing facilities, over 70 UAW and salaried 
employees are certified to train new employees as part 
of the onboarding program about the importance of DEI 
including the UAW-Ford commitment and behaviors 
critical to creating a respectful workforce. 

In addition, we held numerous global programs to raise 
awareness and inspire our employees.

• In China, Ford Credit organized various programs during
the Global Caring Month. For the sixth consecutive year,
Ford Credit China has participated in the Blue Ribbon
Project to provide rehabilitation training for eligible
children with autism and their parents for free.

• In Europe, International Day of Persons with Disabilities
was celebrated through a series of events aimed at
promoting the rights and wellbeing of persons with
disabilities in all spheres of society and development
and to increase awareness in every aspect of political,
social, economic, and cultural life.

• In Canada, Ford held its first ever National Truth and

Reconciliation day in recognition of Indigenous children
placed in assimilation schools in Canada by holding
dialogue and panel discussions. Employees wore
“Every Child Matters” designed orange shirts to honor
the healing journey of Indigenous communities; for the
children who survived Canada’s residential schools,
and remember those who did not.

59  |  





The National Joint 
Diversity and 
Inclusion Program

The National Joint Diversity and Inclusion 
Program focuses on providing information 
to UAW-Ford employees on a variety of 
Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) topics on a 
monthly basis. These communications are 
sent to Local D&I Committee members to 
share at their location, and also displayed 
on monitors throughout the plant.

Local D&I Committees are made up of hourly 
and salary employees and report monthly 
to the National Joint D&I Program related 
to their topics, events, and/or concerns at 
their location. Additionally hourly and salary 
employees are trained on in-depth D&I 
topics, on an annual basis, in order to provide 
updated material and train newly appointed 
committee members. The National D&I 
committee certifies over 70 UAW and 
salaried employees, many of whom are 
Local D&I Committee members, to train new 
manufacturing employees as part of the 
onboarding program about the importance 
of D&I topics including the UAW-Ford 
commitment and behaviors critical to 
creating a respectful workplace.

 


Human Capital and Diversity, Equity and Inclusion – continued

• In our International Markets Group (IMG), colleagues in
countries including Australia, India, and South Africa,
launched the IMG Learning Zone to promote awareness
and understanding on key diversity related topics and to
advance inclusion among all ethnic and gender groups.

A Look Ahead 
Our DEI journey is ongoing. Making sustainable progress 
is our core focus and we will continue to hold ourselves 
accountable. In 2021, each corporate officer had a DEI 
objective and in 2022 this was expanded to all salaried 
employees globally. We will continue building our data 
gathering and metrics capability in order to leverage 
actionable insights. This includes a voluntary self 
identification initiative to gather multiple demographics 
intended to provide more accurate and robust data 
including multiple gender options and LGBTQ+ status.

While metrics and actions are important, the sense of 
belonging that occurs when we get this right is game 
changing for our team and Ford+. We are committed to 
building DEI into our policies, systems, and processes 
in order to create sustained change across the business.

DEI in Dealerships 
Ford is committed to transforming our independent 
Ford and Lincoln dealer network to better represent the 
communities we serve, and we are working with dealers 
to understand the customer and dealership employee 
experience. In the U.S. we are helping to increase the 
number of female and minority owned dealerships. 
In 2021 we increased Black-owned dealerships by 15% 
and plan to continue this progress. 

In 2021, we worked with a third party on a survey to help 
our dealers globally better understand their environment 
and their communities. We sought to understand 
current DEI efforts in Ford dealerships, and analyzed the 
potential impact of DEI efforts on the employee and 
customer experience.

60  |  

Based on the data collected from the nearly 200 dealers 
located in our 10 most diverse U.S. markets, we learned 
that dealers with women and employees of color in 
management positions largely outperformed the dealers 
who lacked diversity in management.

Best practice sharing will help all dealers identify their own 
gaps and provide ideas on how to better acquire, develop, 
and retain key talent that can assist the dealership in their 
efforts to better represent the communities they serve. 

We leveraged dealer council and national meetings to drive
home the thought “I need to represent my community.” 
Not only is it the right thing to do, but it increases business 
opportunities as well by enhancing customer experience 
for everyone who walks into the stores.

For example, a Ford dealer in Texas who participated in 
our study and conducted their own internal assessment 
identified a DEI blind spot and an opportunity to ensure 
that Spanish speaking customers were able to be helped 
by dealership employees who can speak Spanish, and 
they also enhanced their website and social media to be 
in both English and Spanish languages. 

Supplier Diversity and Inclusion
Diversity and Inclusion permeates the core of our 
company – from the diversity of our product offerings and 
global workforce, to our strategic partners, supply base, 
and dealers. We remain committed to support, develop, 
grow, and promote our diverse suppliers while expanding 
the economic impact and growth in the community for a 
more sustainable future. 





A Focus on 
Software Talent 

Recruiting software talent is especially 
challenging in today’s competitive environment. 
Ford has embarked upon a competitive strategy 
to attract, develop, and retain software talent by 
strengthening its workforce planning capability, 
creating a dedicated recruiting team and 
implementing a comprehensive development 
approach. We identified capability gaps to inform 
recruiting and learning plans. 

New partnerships with academia have been 
developed to accelerate career readiness for 
entry level roles and with industry partners to 
focus on experiential learning experiences. 

In 2022 we will launch the Ford Software 
Academy, designed to provide our talent with a 
space to learn, grow, collaborate, and build their 
capabilities. More than a collection of courses, 
the Ford Software Academy will be a fully 
realized journey, sponsored by business leaders, 
and built to support career-long learning. This 
investment in our employees will demonstrate 
our commitment to competing like challengers 
with best-in-class talent.

In 2022 we will launch the Ford 
Software Academy, designed to 
provide our talent with a space 
to learn, grow, collaborate, and 
build their capabilities. More than 
a collection of courses, the Ford 
Software Academy will be a fully 
realized journey, sponsored by 
business leaders, and built to 
support career-long learning.

 
 


Protecting the
Environment

Creating Responsible
and Ethical Growth

Human Capital and Diversity, Equity and Inclusion – continued

Supplier Diversity and Inclusion Awards 2021 
We are proud of the external recognition our supplier 
diversity efforts have received:

• WeConnect International, Top 10 Global Champions
in Supplier Diversity. We were the only automotive
company to receive this award

• WBENC, Top Corporations – Gold
• Disability:IN, DEI Index – Score of 100
• Great Lakes Women’s Business Council, Excellence

in Supplier Diversity

• National Minority Supplier Development Council,

Corporation of the Year

• Michigan Minority Supplier Development Council,

Corporation of the Year

Ford is an active participant in supplier development 
diversity programs including: 

MentorWE – helps certified women owned businesses 
to advance and develop their businesses through 
executive mentors. The program was co-developed with 
the Great Lakes Women’s Business Council (GLWBC). 
In 2021, a MentorWe Technology cohort was developed 
for women in technology.

Driving A Better Tomorrow (DABT) – spotlights 
diversity, inclusion, and sustainability for our supply team. 
In 2021, DABT brought awareness to the Ford Purchasing 
and Supplier Technical Assistance community on the 
importance of education with sessions highlighting Ford 
of Mexico’s Schools Program which provides education 
for children in need and the Lighthouse Program, which 
gives girls in India the opportunity to attend school. 
This set the tone for a program on eradicating child labor. 

Collaborative Growth Initiative – the Michigan Minority 
Supplier Development Council’s Collaborative Growth 
Initiative (CGI) Program is intended to assist high-
performing Minority Business Enterprises (MBEs) by 
strategically growing their businesses. 

Tier 2 (Widening the Inclusion Network) WIN Program 
– is designed to further develop our Tier 1 partners
Supplier Diversity programs through coaching,
mentorship, and thoughtful partnerships with other
diverse businesses.

Using the Michigan Minority Supplier Development 
Council (MMSDC) UniTier Tier II diverse reporting 
platform, Ford captured and reported Tier I suppliers’ 
commitment to the growth and development of 
diversity in the supply chain. Through UniTier reporting, 
Ford Tier I suppliers spent more than $3 billion with 
certified diverse suppliers.

In 2021, Ford purchased goods and services worth20:

$7.46B

from minority-owned suppliers 

$1.15B

from women-owned businesses 

$0.13B

from veteran-owned companies 

$5B

from small businesses 

61  |  

To date, we have sourced over $170 billion in goods and 
services with diverse-owned businesses in the U.S. 

In an effort to expand our spend, Ford made a strategic 
decision to identify global initiatives to support 
businesses owned by people from diverse backgrounds, 
beginning with women-owned businesses. We are in 
the discovery phase of expansion, identifying current 
suppliers that could qualify as a women-owned business. 

To ensure diverse suppliers are considered through the 
entire supply chain, Ford has added Supplier Diversity 
and Inclusivity language into the Purchasing Global 
Terms & Conditions. We are encouraging suppliers to 
establish a Supplier Diversity & Inclusion program with 
specific goals and metrics on diverse supplier spend. 
Diverse spending by Tier I suppliers is part of our 
consideration for sourcing opportunities.

 
 
 
  
 
 
Contents

Ford
Fundamentals

Our Sustainability
Strategy 

Driving Innovation and 
Sustainable Growth

Putting
People First

Protecting the
Environment

Creating Responsible
and Ethical Growth

Employee Health, Safety and Wellbeing

Caring for each other is core to Ford. At Ford 
Motor Company, we strive to put people first 
and create a culture that’s focused on doing 
the right thing — and that includes employee 
health, safety, and wellbeing. 

Employees at every level are responsible and accountable 
for the company’s overall safety initiatives and 
performance. Safety performance is managed by Senior 
Leadership through Plant Operation Reviews (POR), 
Manufacturing Safety Councils (MSC), and Plant Safety 
Review Board meetings (SPRB). 

After all, our most valuable asset is our people. From a 
strong and caring response to COVID-19 to ensuring a 
safe and healthy work environment on site and at home, 
health, safety, and wellbeing are an essential part of the 
Ford culture. 

Caring for Our People
Ford is a Fortune 500 company with a family feel. 
Promoting safety, health, and wellbeing is a collective 
effort, and everyone at Ford plays an essential role. 
Following workplace health and safety guidelines is our 
way of contributing to the broader community. However, 
simply complying with applicable laws and regulations 
is not enough. That’s why many of our internal standards 
go beyond what’s required to meet our commitment to 
our workforce in all our locations. As a salient human 
rights issue, not only are we focused on physical health 
and safety, but our employees’ mental health and 
wellbeing are a priority as well. 

Occupational Health and Safety
Safety at Ford Motor Company is guided by our Health 
and Safety Commitment, “Our Most Valuable Asset is our 
People, there can be No Compromise.” This commitment 
is the basis of our safety culture and applies to all 
employees, contractors, and visitors performing work 
at our locations globally. 

We continually monitor and improve workplace safety 
through our internal Safety Operating System (SOS). 
Safety performance is measured with leading and lagging 
indicators. The leading indicator is Global Corrective 
Action Completion Percentage, this tracks the closure of 
corrective actions by due date. Lagging indicator is Global 
Lost-Time Case Rate. 

Read more in the Human Rights Report

Safety Operating System 
The global Safety Operating System (SOS) is an 
internal tool that ensures the work environment 
within our facilities is safe for our employees and 
meets or exceeds all regulatory and Company safety 
requirements. It provides a structured framework that 
enables the delivery of consistent results by ensuring 
the SOS principles are an ongoing, proactive process 
which is directed by leadership. 

The process validates that each global manufacturing 
facility has the capability and the adherence to 
meet our safety requirements. The SOS is designed 
to prevent and reduce incidents through the 
implementation of the different elements such as: 
Incident Investigation and Analysis, Training, Risk 
Assessment, Emergency Preparedness, and other 
sections which incorporate the health and safety of 
our employees daily. 

The results of each location’s SOS self-assessment are 
reviewed globally by the Manufacturing Vice President, 
each Manufacturing Director in their Manufacturing 
Safety Council meetings, and at each facility during 
their plant Safety Process Review Board meetings. 
The Safety Operating System continues to mature and 
adjust as new standards and processes are added to 
our facilities and the use of technology is expanded. 

Our SOS is designed to prevent and reduce incidents. 
In addition, we have internal hazard identification, risk 
assessment, and incident investigation processes 
implemented throughout our organization. 
Requirements pertain to contractors and all personnel 
on Ford majority-owned facilities, including Pre Task 
Analysis (PTA) identifying work hazards and mitigation, 
in case of occurrence. All PTAs are monitored by Ford. 
Contractors are instructed to report any job hazards 
to their supervisor and Ford representative.

Ford has a longstanding history of working with unions 
that represent production workers, skilled trades, and 
engineers to improve health and safety for our employees 
and workplaces. We are committed to supporting these 
unions and collective bargaining to ensure the health and 
safety of our union represented employees and locations. 
The company has designated members of management 
that interact with Union representatives at local, 
national, and global levels, to ensure we have open 
communications and collaboration to work through 
contractual requirements. 

One of the strengths of the safety organization is the 
dedicated resources we have placed within our 
manufacturing engineering teams to ensure that 
engineered systems are designed and installed resulting 

62  |  

 
 
  
 
 
Contents

Ford
Fundamentals

Our Sustainability
Strategy 

Driving Innovation and 
Sustainable Growth

Putting
People First

Protecting the
Environment

Creating Responsible
and Ethical Growth

Employee Health, Safety and Wellbeing – continued

in safe operations for our employees. We also have safety 
resources assigned to oversee high-risk construction 
contractor work. Our dedicated resources in these critical 
areas of our business, along with robust standards and 
procedures, assure we provide safe conditions and a 
safe workplace at every Ford facility.

Safety training is an essential strategy to help us achieve 
our aspiration of a future that is free from workplace 
injuries. We have a long history of developing industry 
best in class safety training programs. Our safety training 
matrix lists all safety topics, the frequency for each 
training course, the personnel that are required to 
complete training, and who manages the training and 
training format. 

We conduct regular communications and promotions 
on key safety issues to promote occupational health and 
safety. We have robust reporting processes, including all 
injuries, hazards, and near-misses, so we can corrective 
actions are taken and prevention measures are 
implemented. We also share safety best practices via 
multi-industry groups, within and outside the automotive 
sector, and collaborate to address common issues. 

Our Safety Record 
In 2021, we continued to focus on identifying potentially 
fatal events and high-potential incidents involving our 
employees and contractors globally. From these 
incidents, global corrective actions are initiated and 
tracked to ensure that the identified causal factors are 
addressed. These corrective actions are tracked weekly 
to ensure timely completion.

Due to these efforts, we have had very good success with 
reducing these types of events including two consecutive 
years without a workplace fatality in 2019 and 2020. 
Unfortunately, in 2021, we did experience three fatalities 
within our operations, two employees and one service 
contractor. Because each loss of life is unacceptable, 

63  |  

Keeping our place-dependent 
employees healthy and safe is an 
overarching goal. From the factory 
floor to the loading docks to the 
office, our employees are crucial 
to the company’s performance.

cross-functional teams worked extensively to identify 
and implement controls to address the hazards which 
created these life-changing events. 

COVID-19 Response
We continue to rely on our best-in-class COVID-19 
playbook to guide our response to the ongoing pandemic 
and the protocols we developed remain in place. Our goal 
is to keep all of our people safe and help limit the spread 
of the virus in the communities in which we live and work. 
We continue to closely monitor and follow health and 
wellness guidance from experts around the world. 
We also strive to keep our employees educated about 
the virus, its symptoms, and preventative measures they 
can take.

Keeping our place-dependent employees healthy and 
safe is an overarching goal. From the factory floor to the 
loading docks to the office, our employees are crucial to 
the company’s performance. COVID-19 safety protocols 
are in place to protect our employees while at work. 
We diligently monitor our workplaces and when a 
COVID-19 case is reported, we have a robust care team 
process that ensures all protocols are followed. 
Throughout the pandemic, we have continued to conduct 
mandatory safety training and emergency drills aligned 
with our protocols.

We’ve also restricted access to visitors from outside the 
company to Ford facilities, including requiring business-
critical visitors to complete health and wellness screening 
documents before being allowed entry to Ford facilities.

We welcomed the availability of vaccines and recognize 
their value. Globally, we’ve partnered with our unions to 
provide on-site COVID-19 vaccinations for our employees 
at numerous facilities. 

In November 2021, Ford became the first U.S. automaker 
to require vaccinations for salaried employees. 
Additionally in November 2021, our Canadian employees, 
both hourly and salaried, were also required to disclose 
their vaccination status.

Wellbeing 
Our global, holistic approach to wellbeing encompasses 
the financial, social, mental, emotional, physical, and 
professional needs of our employees. Foundational to 
our wellbeing philosophy is providing a broad array of 

 
 
  
 
 
Contents

Ford
Fundamentals

Our Sustainability
Strategy 

Driving Innovation and 
Sustainable Growth

Putting
People First

Protecting the
Environment

Creating Responsible
and Ethical Growth

Employee Health, Safety and Wellbeing – continued

resources and solutions to educate employees, build 
capability, and meet individual and organizational 
wellbeing needs and goals. Wellbeing is an integral part 
of our total rewards strategy. We are working to address 
business and employee challenges through a multi-
channel approach that provides our diverse populations 
and global regions flexibility and choice to meet their 
specific needs. 

We use data-driven insights gathered through surveys, 
focus groups, and claims data to understand employee 
needs and prioritize our wellbeing efforts. Some examples 
of our global wellbeing initiatives include building our 
global pool of trained and certified Mental Health First 
Aiders to provide peer to peer mental health support, 
Mindfulness clubs, and World Mental Health Day 
observances, among other things. 

We also launched a new employee experience with a 
global wellbeing site, self-guided tools, and access to the 
professional support and resources to help employees 
achieve their own sense of wellbeing. In addition, we 
provide financial wellbeing support through access to 
investment advice and financial literacy sessions. We are 
committed to creating an environment where employees 
and People Leaders care for each other as we deliver the 
business objectives outlined in our Ford+ strategy.

To demonstrate ways we care for our employees, we 
focused many of our wellbeing efforts on mental and 
emotional resources mentioned above and also including 
the following:

• Live chats with our leadership and mental health
experts to help decrease stigma as well as raise
awareness of mental health and issues such as burnout

• Global Employee Assistance Programs which provide

counseling support 24/7

• DEI Wellbeing focused sessions

Enabling Vaccine Availability
When Ford employees were struggling to find COVID
vaccines, Wendy Burkett, Director of Global Safety and
Francesca Litow, Medical Director, got to work. After
some dogged persistence with the Wayne County (MI)
Dept. of Health, they were able to secure vaccinations
for the following Monday, just two days away. Over a
busy weekend, Wendy and Francesca engaged IT and
Communications to quickly create an alert system and
by 9:00 a.m. Monday, 800 of their colleagues were
getting vaccinated.

We also set up immunization centers on-site at each of 
our two South Africa plants for employees and their 
dependents, on-site contractors, dealers, and suppliers 
and we administered 14,785 vaccine doses.

64  |  

Setting A New Standard 
Today as we excel into the future of revolutionizing our 
products through electrification, we have the unique 
opportunity to transform the industry’s approach to 
manufacturing by focusing on human centered design. 
By leveraging the strategies proven successful in Ford 
office environments, coupled with conducting our 
own research, we have formulated five key priorities 
focused on health equity and wellness to address 
the occupational demands prevalent in manufacturing. 
It is our intention that through these priorities, Ford will 
not only improve the working conditions and health of its 
essential workers, but also lead the transformation of the 
industry’s business-as-usual approach to manufacturing 
by focusing on environmental stewardship and social 
equity. These priorities, above all, aim to exemplify the 
power of Ford+.

Health Equity
Everyone has a fair and just opportunity to be as 
healthy as possible.

Learning and Growth
Encourage exploration and development of soft skills 
and lifelong learning.

Engagement and Choice
Empower choice of how to work, rest and play when 
possible and appropriate.

Culture and Understanding
Advocate work-life integration and understanding 
of individual differences.

Environmental Impact
Align our operations to our organizational values.





Human Rights: Source only raw materials  
that are responsibly produced

Respecting Human Rights

Our commitment to respecting human 
rights is unwavering. 

Ford’s commitment to human rights was evident when 
Henry Ford introduced the $5 workday in 1914, launching 
the company’s effort to democratize mobility and help 
create the middle class. This commitment stems from 
our purpose of helping to build a better world for all, 
and continues to guide our decision-making and actions 
both today and in the future. As we remain focused on 
respecting and supporting human rights within the 
company, we are also working with our suppliers and 
business partners to do the same. 

Formally committing to respecting human rights through 
our policy, We Are Committed to Protecting Human 
Rights and the Environment, we are also dedicated to 
a broader aspect of human rights – having a positive 
impact on the health, safety, and wellbeing of the 
communities where we live and work.

We have developed our social sustainability aspirations to 
align with our purpose to build a better world. To achieve 
these aspirations, Ford’s Human Rights strategy, aligned 
with the United Nations Guiding Principles (UNGP) on 
Business and Human Rights, focuses on: 

• embedding the corporate policy into the business
• due diligence processes to identify, prevent, mitigate

and account for human rights impacts

• providing remedial actions when needed
• transparency with our stakeholders about our

processes and actions

Governance of human rights issues begins with our 
CEO and Board of Directors and cascades through the 
organization, providing a framework to assess risk 
through the identification of salient human rights issues, 
conduct due diligence, and report transparently about 
our actions and processes. Ford conducts human rights 
risk assessments across its global facilities, in addition 
to the saliency assessment. 

In 2021, our Salient Human Rights Governance team, 
with oversight from our Director of Global Sustainability, 
continued to manage and track our action plans to 
prevent, manage, and remediate salient human rights 
issues. This process helps us track the effectiveness of 
our due diligence systems and performance and indicates 
opportunities to further improve our efforts to address 
human rights, including those that affect how we source 
materials responsibly. 

Because of our deep commitment to these issues, this 
year Ford has developed a stand-alone Human Rights 
Report, the first in the industry, to address our salient 
human rights issues, how they are managed, and the 
key actions that demonstrate our progress. It provides 
a more detailed look at our human rights activities and 
accomplishments, as well as the governance structure 
and practices in place to ensure implementation of our 
human rights strategy.

65  |  

Identifying Our Salient Human Rights Issues
We conducted our third saliency assessment in line with 
the UN Guiding Principles Reporting Framework 
(UNGPRF) to identify and prioritize salient human rights 
issues that apply throughout our business and supply 
chain. The saliency assessment helped us identify which 
human rights are considered at risk of the most severe 
negative impact through the company’s activities and 
business relationships, and any emerging issues that 
ought to be monitored closely. 

Read more about the assessment process and actions we are 
taking to address these issues in our Human Rights Report

Our Salient Human Rights Issues
Through our human rights saliency assessment, we 
have identified 10 salient human rights issues that apply 
throughout our business, our supply chain, and other 
business partners in our value chain. 

Read more about the individual salient human rights issues 

in our Human Rights Report

1

10

2

9

8

Most salient Human 
Rights Issues 
for Ford  

3

4

7

5

6
6

Issue

UN SDGs

††

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

Access to water 
and sanitation 

 Air quality

 Child labor

Climate change

Equal and fair wages

Forced labor and 
ethical recruitment  

Harassment and 
discrimination 

Human trafficking

Occupational health, 
safety and wellbeing

10 

Product safety 
and quality 

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 


Driving Innovation and  
Sustainable Growth

PPututtitinngg    
PPeeooppllee F Fiirsrstt

Protecting the 
Environment

Creating Responsible 
and Ethical Growth

Human Rights and Supply Chain Management – continued

Human Rights Within Ford
Our commitment to respect human rights starts with 
our employees. We strive to maintain a safe and healthy 
work environment, do not tolerate harassment and 
discrimination, and follow ethical recruitment practices. 
Across Ford, we act with integrity and transparency, 
creating safe, inclusive workplaces. 

Read more about our Approach to Human Rights in our 

Human Rights Report

The global pandemic has sparked us to look at 
wellbeing in a more holistic way, considering the mental 
health of our employees in addition to their physical 
health. From labor protocols to care for site-dependent 
employees during the pandemic, to helping employees 
keep their skills current during the transition to EVs, we 
are committed to doing the right thing.

External Recognition
We are receiving external recognition for our efforts. 
When Just Capital assessed how companies serve 
their workers, communities, shareholders and 
governance, customers and environment, we ranked #1 
in the Automobile and Parts category and 20th overall. 

We also participated in the World Benchmarking 
Alliance (WBA) Just Transition Framework for the 
first time in 2021. We scored as leaders on social 
sustainability and human rights in the automotive 
sector but we still have work to do to improve 
transparency and impact. We are taking action to 
address transparency in our Just Transition strategy.

Just Transition
Electrification represents a revolution in the auto industry, 
as it reshapes the future of work. We are mindful of the 
impacts on our employees, our supply chain, our 
communities, and our customers. We are addressing and 
evolving our Just Transition strategy as we move towards 
carbon neutrality and electrification.

Ford’s transformation is shaped and impacted by complex 
external societal, geopolitical, and environmental factors. 
Digital transformation is reshaping how, where, and who 
works today. 

Digitization has disturbed business models across 
industries and new value streams emerge that require 
new skills and approaches. The global community is 
vastly underprepared for the upcoming impact of 
automation. McKinsey identified that <5% of jobs are 
fully automatable today, however 60% of jobs are at 
least 30% automatable. 

With these changes Ford should consider accelerating 
our ability to reskill, upskill, and better develop our 
employees and people in the communities which we 
operate. We are introducing a new learning strategy 
to prepare Ford for today and into the future.

Supporting a Just Transition will take ongoing effort. 
We believe that our initiatives to create employment 
at BlueOval City, invest in job training and career 
readiness initiatives for the next generation of 
technicians, introduce a new learning strategy at Ford, 
and democratize electrification are steps in the right 
direction. We are working to increase electrified 
vehicles and charging access as well as to develop 
new mobility solutions.

Read about our Just Transition plan in our

Human Rights Report

Our Human Rights Commitments
Aligned with the UNGP on Business and Human 
Rights, we are committed to respecting the United 
Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 
the International Labour Organization (ILO)’s 
Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights 
at Work, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation 
and Development (OECD) Guidelines for 
Multinational Enterprises, the United Nations 
Women’s Empowerment Principles, and the United 
Nations Global Compact (UNGC). Our Global 
Framework Agreement (GFA) with industriALL 
Global Union reiterates our commitments to our 
global labor community.

66  |  





Reskill Pilots

Skill Sprint Program: a I4CP Next Practice 
Award Winner 
Faced with a disruption in our European markets 
due to factors including a shift in customer 
behavior, the move to a carbon-neutral 
transportation and a demand for device 
integration, we developed a Skill Sprint Program 
to enhance capability in the U.K. workforce at all 
experience levels. Ford of Europe put into effect 
four priority sprints, covering skills, environment, 
innovation, and digitization, to reskill and redeploy 
personnel, compete for talent against tech 
companies outside the automotive industry, and 
instill a continuous learning culture. The program, 
which has trained 1,400 people across disciplines 
and functions, was the i4cp Next Practice Award 
winner in 2021.

Learn to Code Academy
Digital transformation and our Ford+ Plan are 
driving major shifts in the skills required to 
successfully deliver for our customers. To help 
us develop software talent from within the 
company, Ford Credit is piloting a Learn to Code 
Academy which will reskill 20 non-technical 
talent for junior-level software engineering role 
using a 16-week experiential learning program. 
Other companies have used this curriculum with 
95% success rate, and we are thrilled to see how 
it could address our software talent needs.

 


Human Rights and Supply Chain Management – continued

production sourcing decisions to support supplier 
engagement and performance improvement. 

Read more about the Supplier Code of Conduct in the Our 

Approach to Human Rights section of the Human Rights Report

Building Supplier Capacity
Training and auditing of our suppliers is a key element 
of our due diligence process to enable a responsibly 
sourced supply chain. 

As members of the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) 
and Drive Sustainability, we supported the development 
and expansion of human rights and working conditions 
e-learning training modules and webinars launched in
lieu of in-person training during the COVID pandemic.
We extended invitations to suppliers based on risk
assessment results.

To build supplier capacity on tin, tantalum, tungsten, 
and gold (3TG) and cobalt due diligence, we leveraged 
resources such as the RMI eLearning Academy and our 
own Ford developed modules to train nearly 100 supplier 
companies in 2021.

Ford plans to continue collaboration with industry 
organizations to develop e-learning training. These 
trainings are a key element of our due diligence process.

Assessing Our Supply Chain
Given the size and complexity of our supply chain, we 
focus on supplier sites with a higher risk for substandard 
working conditions based on their location, the type of 
parts they supply to Ford, or the processes they utilize 
to produce their parts. 

Our 2021 supplier risk assessment included data from 
suppliers representing over 85% of our production global 
spend. The risk assessment supports our audit selection 
processes and provides key insights into how we can 
improve our human rights program. 





In terms of raw material sourcing, we identify and prioritize 
human rights risks based on the governance in place in raw 
material countries of origin and the vulnerability to child or 
forced labor through raw material extraction, harvesting, 
or processing.

Auditing Our Supply Chain 
We conduct Sustainability Self-Assessment 
Questionnaires (SAQs) with our production suppliers. 
The SAQ is based on the Global Automotive 
Sustainability Guiding Principles and Practical Guidance, 
which have been developed through a collaboration of 
global original equipment manufacturers (OEMs).

A growing element in our due diligence efforts, the SAQ 
is aligned with the Supplier Code of Conduct, and as such 
is used to assess supplier sustainability and to support 
Ford in identifying social and environmental risks 
throughout our supply base. 

We are in the process of scaling the SAQ to our entire 
production supply base with the goal of 100% response 
rate, enabling us to verify that supplier policies and 
practices meet the standard of our Supplier Code of 
Conduct. In 2022, we are planning to use this information 
to integrate sustainability into our sourcing decisions.

Third-party social responsibility audits let suppliers 
know whether they meet their contractual obligations 
to Ford and our expectations while highlighting areas for 
improvement. As an RBA member, we use its Validated 
Audit Protocol (VAP) to assess labor, health and safety, 
management systems, ethics and environmental issues 
in our supply chain. By the end of 2021, we had conducted 
1,227 supplier audits and 1,676 follow-up assessments 
worldwide since our program began. 

Ford is First U.S. 
Automaker to Join IRMA
Ford is proud to become the first American 
automaker to join the Initiative for Responsible 
Mining Assurance (IRMA), expanding the 
company’s commitment to safeguard human 
rights, communities where such work is done, 
and the broader environment. IRMA works to 
advance responsible mining practices, providing 
third-party verification and certification against 
comprehensive environmental and social 
criteria for all mined materials.

Ford’s IRMA membership is another step 
towards the company’s human rights aspiration 
to responsibly source all raw materials used 
within vehicles globally – a journey Ford has 
been taking steps toward for over 20 years.

As an IRMA member, Ford communicated 
expectations to key suppliers to source mined 
material from suppliers committing to and/or 
participating in IRMA certification. We reached 
out to suppliers providing parts containing 
aluminum, steel, rare earth elements, 
palladium, cobalt, lithium & nickel. Suppliers 
were asked to identify sources of mined 
materials and complete a Responsible Minerals 
Initiative (RMI) Risk Readiness Assessment 
(RRA) to better understand our supply chain’s 
current ESG practices and gaps as well as 
commit to engaging with IRMA in 2022.

Human Rights in Our Supply Chain
Our commitment to human rights extends to our supply 
chain. Ford’s supply chain sustainability strategy is to 
build supply base capacity that exceeds minimum 
regulatory compliance requirements and creates shared 
business value. 

In 2021 we established a formal Supplier Code of Conduct 
that applies clear requirements and expectations for 
all Ford suppliers in areas related to human rights, 
the environment, responsible material sourcing and 
responsible business practices. Available in eight 
languages, the new Supplier Code requires all suppliers 
globally to enforce a similar code of practice and for 
subcontractors to do the same. 

The Supplier Code of Conduct is incorporated within 
Ford’s Global Terms and Conditions. In 2022, we are 
planning to integrate sustainability metrics into our 

67  |  

 


Driving Innovation and
Sustainable Growth

Putting
People First

Protecting the
Environment

Creating Responsible
and Ethical Growth

Human Rights and Supply Chain Management – continued





Empowering Women 
with Responsible Mineral 
Sourcing Pilot Program

Due to the wider restrictions and site-level safety 
measures related to COVID-19, we had limited access to 
conduct audits at our planned supplier sites. In response, 
we utilized RBA’s remote supplier audit process, including 
external validation and certification by the RBA, for a 
portion of our 2021 audits.

In 2021, we began mapping and auditing our EV battery 
material supply chains. The program will strengthen 
our responsible sourcing capacity, allow for better risk 
assessments, and drive continual improvements in 
transparency, and responsibility in our cobalt, lithium, 
and nickel supply chains. 



Read more about EV Battery Raw Material Mapping and 
Auditing in our Human Rights Report

Additionally, we launched a new cross-functional team, 
the Responsible Materials Council (RMC), to build 
capacity among Ford skill teams to educate suppliers, 
advocate for transparency, and influence ESG 
considerations in sourcing and designing decisions. 

To help accomplish this strategy, Ford participates in 
industry and cross-industry associations and engagements 
that standardize tools, processes, and expectations so 
global suppliers can responsibly source materials. 



Read more in our Human Rights Report

For any nonconformances found during the audit process, 
we require suppliers to develop corrective action plans. 
We also provide suppliers with corrective actions needed 
to address gaps in alignment with Ford’s Supplier Code 
of Conduct based on their SAQ responses.

Our experience with audits demonstrates the willingness 
of suppliers and the effectiveness of the process to 
achieve progress at the facility level. We did not choose 
to end any supplier relationships due to unresolved audit 
findings in 2021. 



Read more about our Supply Chain actions in our 
Human Rights Report 

Responsibly Sourced Raw Materials
We aspire to source only raw materials that are responsibly 
produced. Sourcing responsibly the thousands of different 
materials is an important human rights issue. We continue 
to maintain a leadership position in addressing human 
rights issues associated with conflict minerals. We have a 
raw materials sourcing strategy that expands our due 
diligence program beyond conflict minerals to include 
mica, cobalt, lithium, rubber, and copper. 

68  |  

Ford is working with its international nonprofit and grant 
making partners to support and promote a pilot program 
that will empower women working in the copper and 
cobalt supply chains in the Democratic Republic of Congo. 
The region has emerged as a key resource for critical metals 
that have become the keystone of the energy transition as 
the automotive industry electrifies more vehicles.

The Promoting the Empowerment of Women in Copper 
and Cobalt Mineral Supply Chains program aims to increase 
access to profitable, sustainable enterprises by training 
women on financial education, business management, 
mining innovation and leadership, and formalizing women’s 
Artisanal and Small Mine cooperatives that allow equal 
access to market opportunities. The program will track 
the impact of and inform future public policy and private 
programs through an analytical study on women in cobalt 
and Artisanal and Small Mines supply chains. The program 
addresses poverty, one of the root cause of child labor, and 
demonstrates how Ford is already taking action in response 
to the 2021 Action Pledge for the UN’s International Year for 
the Elimination of Child Labor.



Read more about our commitment to eliminate Child Labor  
in our Human Rights Report

This program will help minimize 
poverty of women in the cobalt 
supply chain and address one 
of the root causes of child labor. 
The pilot project is an example 
of how the auto industry can 
improve conditions in mineral 
supply chains, empower 
women, and protect the rights 
of the most vulnerable.” 

Sue Slaughter, 
Purchasing Material Cost and Supply Chain 
Sustainability Director


Vehicle/Product Safety and Quality 

We have processes and systems in place to confirm that 
our vehicles align with stringent internal guidelines on 
safety design and Ford-specified levels of performance 
for Public Domain tests (see our 2021 vehicle safety 
highlights). We regularly re-evaluate and update these 
guidelines, ensuring continuous improvement. 

front, moderate overlap front, original side, roof strength, 
and head restraints. Also, the vehicles demonstrated 
good-rated or acceptable-rated headlight performance 
and superior or advanced front crash prevention for 
vehicle-to-vehicle and vehicle-to-pedestrian accident 
avoidance systems.

To achieve high levels of safety performance, we conduct 
engineering analyses, computer simulations and 
component, subsystem and full-vehicle crash tests at 
several sites in the United States and Europe, including 
crash-test facilities, the VIRTTEX (Virtual Test Track 
Experiment), and the Research and Innovation Center 
in Dearborn, Michigan. 

Ford’s practice is not to use animals for safety testing nor 
to ask or fund others to do so on our behalf, unless required 
by law or where there is not an acceptable alternative for 
critical safety research. We will continue to be leaders in 
creating, developing, and validating alternative methods 
to proving and providing product safety.

United States: U.S. NCAP (NHTSA)

• For the 2021 model year, eight Ford and four Lincoln
nameplates were rated with 5-star overall vehicle
scores (as of January 2022). This represents 100%
of the Lincoln fleet.

United States: Insurance Institute for Highway 
Safety (IIHS) 

• Ford claimed 10 Top Safety Pick/Top Safety Pick+
Awards for 2021: Escape, Edge, Explorer, Corsair,
Aviator, Bronco Sport, F-150 Crew Cab, F-150 SuperCab,
Mustang Mach-E, and Nautilus. This represents 63%
of the Ford/Lincoln nameplates receiving the TSP/
TSP+ awards.

Global Safety Ratings
Ford continues to receive high marks and accolades in 
public and private crash testing assessments. However, 
New Car Assessment Programs (NCAPs) vary widely 
with differing protocols and evaluation criteria, and are 
continually updated. Consequently, it is increasingly 
difficult to achieve top ratings across all regions. 
Nonetheless, we are proud that so many of our vehicles 
have received 5-star ratings globally, and we continue 
to place considerable emphasis on our performance in 
these assessments.

Our 2021 Vehicle Safety Highlights:
In 2021, Ford doubled the number of TOP SAFETY PICK 
awards from the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety, 
bringing the total number of awards to 10. The TOP 
SAFETY PICK award requires top scores in six test 
categories: driver- and passenger-side small overlap 

Europe: Euro NCAP 

• Ford had 10 Euro NCAP 5-star rated vehicles in 2021:

Mustang Mach-E, S-Max, Galaxy, Fiesta, Focus,
Mondeo, Kuga, Explorer, Puma, and Edge. These
vehicles represent 83% of our fleet on sale in Europe.

China: China NCAP 

• Explorer and Equator were awarded the 5-star rating

by China NCAP in 2021.

China: C-IASI (China Insurance Automotive Safety Index)

• Escape was awarded all Good Ratings on safety

assessment protocols by C-IASI in 2021.

Read more about Product Safety and Quality in our 

Human Rights Report

Safety: Work toward a future that is free 
from vehicle crashes and workplace injuries

Designing and Building Safe and 
Quality Vehicles
Our customers trust us to help get them and their loved 
ones where they need to go – safely. We take that trust 
seriously. After all, vehicle safety and quality affects 
all people – from our customers, to road users, to the 
general public and it’s one of our salient human rights 
issues. We are committed to designing and building safe, 
quality vehicles that meet or exceed applicable laws and 

69  |  

regulations. While we are designing and building today’s 
vehicles, we have an eye on tomorrow. We continuously 
seek to innovate and improve the safety of our products, 
utilizing technologies available today and exploring 
those being developed for the future. We aspire to a 
future that is crash-free. Ford has a commitment to 
deliver high levels of safety to our customers and 
employees. We design and manufacture safety into 
our products and services, creating vehicles that achieve 
the highest levels of safety in a range of real-world 
conditions. We are committed to meeting our customers’ 
needs and expectations and performing well in public 
crash testing assessments. 

Ford’s advanced active safety 
technology fitted to commercial 
vehicles helps customers avoid 
accidents and minimize the expense 
and downtime of crash repairs. 

Euro NCAP Advanced Awards 
With millions of vans on Europe’s roads, the safety of 
commercial vehicles is key to improving safety for all 
road users.

Ford’s advanced active safety technology fitted to 
commercial vehicles helps customers avoid accidents and 
minimize the expense and downtime of crash repairs. In a 
new initiative testing the performance and effectiveness 
of active safety systems on many of Europe’s best-selling 
vans, covering almost all sales, the Ford Transit and Transit 
Custom both excelled. 

The Transit and Transit Custom were selected to receive 
the highest-level Gold award from independent vehicle 
safety authority Euro NCAP. The tests assessed the 
performance of autonomous emergency braking systems 
that help to protect vans and other road users, including 
pedestrians and cyclists.

70  |  

Ford BlueCruise hands-free highway Driver-Assist Technology22

U.S. Automatic Emergency Braking (AEB) commitment
Pre-Collision Assist with Automatic Emergency Braking 
(AEB) helps drivers to avoid certain crashes. Ford pledged 
to equip a minimum of 95% of all new lightweight 
vehicles (under 8,500-pounds) with AEB in the U.S. 
market by September 2022. Ford is now 1 of 12 OEMs 
meeting the commitment ahead of time at 96%. Ford is 
continuing their commitment for the next phase for 
vehicles in the 8,501 to 10,000-pound range by 2025/26. 
Ford has improved its commitment in this heavier weight 
class from 62% in 2020 to 75% in 2021. Ford will also be 
selling AEB equipped vehicles in Canada at similar levels.

Ford Co-Pilot360™ Technology 
Driving is meant to be enjoyed. From the beginning, Ford 
has been inspired by this truth: that all people have the 
right to move more confidently and freely through the 

world. But on our increasingly distracted and crowded 
roads, enjoyment often turns to stress.

We can all use more confidence on the road. Available 
Ford Co-Pilot360™ Technology21 has features to help 
keep you in command, from the driveway to the highway. 
It’s helping you know what’s in your blind spot, and when 
to slow down. It’s the nudge that helps you stay inside 
your lane and on the right track. It’s not being daunted by 
a tight parking spot or the steepest hill. Not being 
surprised by a pedestrian or unexpected stop. It’s backing 
up with a trailer or hitching it with ease. It’s in the big 
stuff, like hauling precious cargo, and the little details, 
like being able to keep both hands on the wheel when 
a few raindrops become a downpour. It’s a clear view 
of the road ahead and the path behind you. It’s being 
set free to love every moment of the journey.

The 2022 F-150 Lightning truck with available Ford 
BlueCruise allows for true hands-free driving on 
prequalified sections of divided highways called Hands-
Free Blue Zones that make up over 130,000 miles of 
North American roads.22 Ford Co-Pilot360™ 2.0 includes 
Auto High Beams, Blind Spot Information System (BLIS) 
with Cross-Traffic Alert, Lane Keeping System and 
Pre-Collision Assist with Automatic Emergency Braking. 
We’ve equipped the F-150 Lightning with available smart 
technologies designed to make it easy to hook up your 
trailer with Pro Trailer Backup Assist, Trailer Reverse 
Guidance, Smart Hitch and Trailer Brake Controller to 
help you control it. Plus, it has available Onboard Scales 
that help keep you informed on what you’re towing and 
hauling whether it’s for work or recreation. 


Onboard Scales23
This available feature offers a scale that measures payload 
weight automatically based on the specific capability of 
the F-150 Lightning. It then displays the approximate 
payload weight in the truck. Load information is displayed 
in the center touchscreen with a graphic representation 
of the truck or on a mobile phone through the FordPass™ 
App. Additionally, the truck can be set on scale mode, 
which zeroes out the current load and allows for 
approximate weighing of additional items loaded onto 
the pickup.

Pro Trailer Backup Assist
Whether you’re a novice or a seasoned pro, backing up 
with a trailer can be challenging. This available feature 
makes it as easy as turning a knob — simply rotate in the 
direction you want the trailer to go and Pro Trailer Backup 
Assist™ responds accordingly.

Trailer Reverse Guidance
Available Trailer Reverse Guidance gives extra assistance 
when you’re backing up a trailer, enhancing visibility via 
cameras in the sideview mirrors and visual guides in the 
center dash screen. You get a clear view of where the 
trailer’s going while Trailer Reverse Guidance coaches 
you along the way.

Pro Trailer Hitch AssistTM
Available Pro Trailer Hitch Assist helps you to hook up 
your trailer more easily by automatically controlling the 
steering wheel, throttle, and braking to align the hitch ball 
and trailer coupler. All the driver needs to do is hold down 
a button and control the gears. The driver is then alerted 
to help ensure that the coupler is high enough to clear the 
hitch ball. Once the two are aligned, the truck stops and 
you lower the trailer onto the tow ball.

Smart Hitch
Available Smart Hitch is designed to help you easily load 
trailers and practice safe towing. Smart Hitch measures 
the tongue weight of a trailer being connected to help 
the customer distribute trailer weight correctly. After the 
trailer is set up in the center touch screen, Smart Hitch 
calculates its appropriate tongue weight and provides 
guidance on weight distribution or hitch overloading on 
the screen or on the FordPass App. The truck will indicate 
if the current hitch weight is too high or low, and can even 
guide owners through properly tensioning a weight-
redistributing hitch.

Bringing Collision Avoidance Into View 
We are building on a long-standing relationship with 
Mobileye, part of Intel, to develop our camera-based 
detection capabilities for driver assist systems. Mobileye 
will provide its EyeQ® family of devices, alongside vision-
processing software, to support Level 1 and Level 2 driver 
assistance systems across our vehicles globally. New 
production vehicles will incorporate EyeQ chips and 
software to support features under our Ford Co-Pilot360 
technology. This includes the Lane-Keeping System, 
Auto High-Beam Headlamps, Pre-Collision Assist with 
Automatic Emergency Braking, and Intelligent Adaptive 
Cruise Control.

Combating Heatstroke in Vehicles 
On average, a child dies from vehicular heatstroke every
nine days in the United States
developed a Rear Occupant Alert System that gives an 
“in-vehicle” warning via our SYNC® system. Introduced 
in the 2020 model year Escape and Corsair, the system is 
included in all four-door 2021 model year vehicles equipped
with SYNC, meeting the 2019 Voluntary Agreement. 
The feature will be deployed globally where feasible. 

Ford will continue to enhance warning notifications for 
future models and research technologies that can detect 
in-cabin occupant presence. These features will help 
address scenarios beyond those defined by the 2019 
Voluntary Agreement, and should enhance effectiveness 
in minimizing and potentially avoiding pediatric vehicular 
heatstroke cases.

Driver Assist Technologies

95% of nameplates with the technology available 
for Pre-Collision Assist with Automatic 
Emergency Braking, Lane Keeping Alert, 
and Adaptive Cruise Control

85% of nameplates with the technology available 
for Automatic High Beam Controller

72  |  

Keeping Occupants Safe

Precompetitive Partnerships 
To enhance the safety of vehicle occupants, we work 
alongside other automotive manufacturers through the 
U.S. Council for Automotive Research (USCAR) and 
Canadian Vehicle Manufacturers’ Association (CVMA), 
and collaborate with other manufacturers through 
Alliance for Automotive Innovation, the European Council 
for Automotive R&D (EUCAR), the Society of Automotive 
Engineers (SAE), and the International Organization for 
Standardization (ISO). We often publish the results in 
peer-reviewed journals and scientific publications. 

Post-Crash Response 
Our SYNC in-car connectivity helps occupants to call for 
assistance after an accident, and can give first responders 
potentially life-saving information, quickly and efficiently. 
In addition to providing the operator with a GPS location, 
SYNC in-car connectivity relays data on impact velocity, 
crash type, safety belt use, and airbag deployment, 
helping emergency services respond appropriately. 

Most of our vehicles also carry the SOS Post-Crash Alert 
System™, which alerts passers-by and first responders 
to a vehicle’s location. 

Safety Research Partnerships

Occupant protection and crashworthiness

• Evaluating the safety performance of lithium-ion batteries with Sandia National Laboratories 

and the National Renewable Energy Laboratory. Effort includes developing mechanical, thermal 
and electromechanical multi-physics modeling capabilities to help predict lithium-ion battery 
performance and damage when subjected to an impact.

Technical challenges of self-driving vehicles

• Founding member of the American Center for Mobility, using its state-of-the-art facility for 

developing and validating test methods for self-driving vehicles.

Vehicle-to-Vehicle (V2V) safety 
communication systems

Cybersecurity

Driver distraction

• Ford envisions that the future of transportation will be increasingly electric, connected, and 

autonomous. C-V2X is an essential component of the next generation connected transportation 
network. Ford plans to deploy cellular vehicle-to-everything (C-V2X) as soon as practicable 
subject to a conducive regulatory environment in individual markets. The ability to interact with 
vehicles, infrastructure, pedestrians, bicyclists, and others can help ensure safer streets to the 
benefit of all citizens.

• Ford’s long-standing commitment to protect our customers extends to the company’s software-

led transformation to create always-on ownership experiences. We recognize that this 
transformation comes with challenges such as cybersecurity, which is why Ford has integrated 
cybersecurity with all stages of the vehicle lifecycle. This includes following established global 
cybersecurity standards (UNECE R155) for automakers, and proactively assessing the impact 
of cybersecurity on new areas such as data privacy, Ford Co-Pilot360 semi-automated driver 
assistance technologies, and development of our fully autonomous vehicles.

• Partnering with universities and organizations such as the Alliance for Automotive Innovation, we 
are researching driver distraction and analyzing data from large-scale naturalistic driving studies.

In parallel to a mandatory EU regulation on Automated 
Emergency Calling Systems for new vehicles in 2018, 
a UN regulation to harmonize all in-vehicle systems on 
a global scale has also been adopted.

We use warranty repairs as a key metric to measure 
initial quality, but go beyond warrantable items alone 
and include measures of customer excitement to 
measure our products. 

Product Quality 
Internal and external measurements of quality and 
brand promotion help us assess our performance and 
determine where we can make improvements. All Ford 
plants are accredited to ISO 9001:2015.

Monitoring Quality and Satisfaction 
We are on a continuous mission to make product quality 
one of the principal reasons why customers buy Ford, 
time and again. 

We use the Quality Net Promoter Score (QNPS), which 
measures the ownership experience at three, 12 and 36 
months in service. QNPS provides a comprehensive and 
holistic view of quality by capturing both customers’ 
“dislikes” and “likes” (e.g., “Things Gone Right”). This new 
tool will give us more timely, actionable insights that align 
with various industry performance indicators of quality, 
such as the annual studies conducted by J.D. Power 
and Associates: 

Our 2021 Quality Achievements
• Initial Quality Study: J.D. Power initial Quality Study

(IQS) results improved versus 2020. Ford ranked
seventh among 15 OEMs and at industry average.
Ford brand tied the Industry average; Lincoln improved,
ranking third among 14 premium brands. Lincoln Corsair,
Ford Ranger and Ford Super Duty ranked within the
“Top 3” of their respective segments.

• Automotive Performance, Execution and Layout

Study (APEAL): Ford ranked 5th among the 18 mass
market brands. Lincoln ranked 4th among the 13
premium brands. Ford Mustang Mach-E and Bronco
Sport were first in their segments, Compact SUV and
Small SUV respectively.

 
 
 
 
The Global Recall Implementation Database 
(GRID) is modernizing the analysis and 
execution of field service actions for safety, 
compliance, emissions, and customer 
satisfaction issues. With GRID, global teams 
can now communicate in a single tool across 
five major regions to expedite service fixes to 
customers on a global scale.

GRID launched in late 2020 and expanded to 
eight major IT launches in 2021. The program 
had been used to manage investigations 
globally by users across multiple organizations 
within Ford.

Improving Our Quality Processes 
We are investing additional time and attention to 
continue improving in vehicle quality and customer safety. 
We are working to ensure quality, customer satisfaction, 
and recall actions have more visibility and support at all 
levels of the company. We have started to see a reduction 
in the number of the field service actions and affected 
units when comparing 2020 with 2021.

• Potential safety or safety compliance items are

assessed through a long-standing global process
utilizing a core cross-functional team with additional
subject experts when necessary. The cross-functional
team assesses issues and escalates through a series
of designated forums of increasing leadership levels
within Ford. This process can ultimately lead to review
of an item at the vice-president level and become a
safety recall. The core cross-functional teams exist
and operate in each business region and the regional
teams all come together in a global forum to
share information.

73  |  

• We are measuring the time to issue resolution with a
“shot clock” – leveraging Quality Early Detection and
using Over The Air Update (OTA) capability for faster
issue resolution.

•  We are increasing our use of advanced data analytics 

and machine learning to help with the earlier detection 
of potential issues across our vehicle portfolio, even 
before delivering the vehicle to the customer. Our Early 
Quality Issue Suite draws on multiple data sources, 
from connected vehicles to customer service calls, to 
accelerate the investigative process. This tool minimizes 
time from detection to correction by combining this 
information with automatic anomaly detection and 
root cause analysis.

•  New tools will enable us to trace parts and subsystems 

more precisely to vehicle-specific builds when an 
issue arises, rather than issuing wider recalls targeting 
a date range of vehicle identification numbers, which 
generally involve broad vehicle populations that may 
not all be affected. 

• We continue to improve investigation tracking and
dealer engagement processes. Using an integrated
data management system, we will soon be able to
monitor all stages of a quality investigation. This will
lead to faster decisions, improved parts availability,
and global sharing of best practice solutions.

• We are now implementing processes to address

potential customer concerns in a faster way, even
before delivering the vehicle to the customer.

• We have implemented quality data dashboards for timely

identification and resolution of customer concerns.


Battery Safety Core Team
As we progress towards electrification, new 
technologies mean Ford must be more mindful 
of how to handle incidents that arise. Our new 
Battery Safety Core Team, which was formalized 
in 2021, has developed an incident investigation 
system for electrification batteries that is separate 
from our existing protocol for ICE battery incidents. 

The Team is tasked with ensuring that employees 
know how to respond to e-battery issues. They 
also focus on making sure that incidents are not 
indicative of a more widespread problem. The team 
shares its experiences and findings with the product 
development team, as well as with other OEMs. 


Understanding the customer experience is 
essential for achieving the Ford+ Plan’s goal 
of providing distinctive, real-world solutions, 
always-on customer relationships, and 
ever-improving user experiences. 

Understanding the Customer 
With our insights about customer behaviors and lifestyles, 
we can build emotional connections with customers and 
what matters most to them as they build better lives 
and pursue their dreams. Only through knowledge and 
empathy can we build customer loyalty over time. 

We understand that customers want speed, convenience, 
personalization, and seamless experiences across every 
part of their lives. And when customers trust a brand, they 
report high levels of loyalty, opportunity for growth, and 
intention to recommend the brand to others. It’s not 
enough to offer quality products and solid services – we 
need to deliver fast, personalized, and trusted experiences. 
Every interaction, every day, is a chance to earn trust and 
loyalty through honesty, expertise, and care. 

Treating Customers Like Family 
It starts with valuing our customers as members of the 
Ford family. In fact, treating customers like family is part 
of Ford’s heritage. And all of our employees play a critical 
role. To build a culture of customer-centricity, we are 
empowering our employees with new learning 
opportunities and tools, such as a support program that 
gives them quick assistance to resolve vehicle issues for 
themselves or their friends and family.

We are on a mission to enhance the entire customer 
journey, from the dealership to the FordPass app, and 
everything in between. Every touchpoint, from purchase 
through setup, repair, maintenance, and renewal, is covered 
as we seek to foster a network of loyal customers and 
brand advocates. And as we lead the electric revolution 
with connected, all-electric vehicles and Ford Pro’s leading 
commercial vehicle line-up, we are creating distinctive 
services that help people more easily manage EV lifestyles 
and businesses enjoy the advantages of electrification.

Ford: Always-on 
As the pandemic raged on, disrupting business as usual, 
our approach to our customers has been changing and 
accelerating to meet evolving expectations – moving 
from a one-time sales and buying interaction to 
embracing the entire customer experience throughout 
the vehicle ownership cycle. Always-on. This change 
impacts everything we are doing at Ford, from how 
we design the in-vehicle experience to establishing a 
connected, transparent infrastructure to how we build 
commercial vehicles. 

For many Ford owners, their vehicle is a reflection and 
extension of their lifestyle – and we want to help them 
make the most of it.

The Evolving Role of E-Commerce
The retail environment is evolving rapidly with changing 
customer preferences triggered, in large part, by the 
difficulties of the pandemic. We’ve seen an acceleration 
to online shopping and a demand for convenient, remote 
experiences like pickup and delivery, and the use of mobile 
service vans that come right to the customer’s door.

74  |  

 
 
 
  
 
 


Driving Innovation and  
Sustainable Growth

Putting  
People First

Protecting the
Environment

Creating Responsible
and Ethical Growth

Customer Experience, Marketing and Satisfaction – continued





Mobile Vehicle Spa 
Oil changes, washes, checking tires, and 
handling everyday “dings” on a vehicle are 
chores that eat up precious time. So Lincoln 
Strategy Manager Justin Counts and his 
team disrupted the status quo with a 
Mobile Vehicle Spa that brings service 
to customers! With a lot of convenience 
(and a touch of luxury), the pilot program 
in Houston, TX, creates value beyond the 
purchase and makes being a Lincoln owner 
even more of a pleasure – another way Ford 
is always-on for customers.

In March 2021, we launched our Mustang Mach-E Cart 
and Checkout commerce platform in the U.S. and Europe, 
providing an end-to-end online experience that includes 
financing, trade-in appraisal, accessories, and more. 
Customers can choose to do everything online and 
even have their vehicles dropped off at their front door. 
The feedback has been excellent, customers love the 
process, especially the transparent pricing tool.

The learnings from Mustang Mach-E’s online experience 
will inform our next phase of eCommerce capabilities – 
and a similar experience will be used for F-150 Lightning.

Buyers as far away as Norway have been able to choose 
accessories, do paperwork and arrange delivery of Ford 
vehicles – all from the comfort of home. This super-
convenient platform provides a new way to welcome 
customers to the Ford family.

In China, we have set up a new EV organization to sell 
direct to customers either online or through Ford Select 
city stores, starting with the Mustang Mach-E. We had 
25 stores at the end of 2021 and will be on track to open 
100 within five years.

In this environment, it is essential to listen to customers 
and deliver experiences that meet their needs. Even as 
customers return to dealerships, they want to engage 
with stores in new ways using the digital, remote, and 
touchless experiences we now provide. 

As a result of these circumstances and our always-on 
approach, Ford’s ranking in the Forester customer 
experience index improved from 13th to 8th in 2021.

Pickup and Delivery
Strengthening our commitment to provide an elevated 
level of customer support, we began pickup and delivery 
services in the early days of the pandemic, when some 
Ford dealerships realized that customers would 
appreciate getting their vehicles serviced while staying 
safe in the comfort of their home. The process is simple – 

75  |  

customers call their local dealer to schedule an 
appointment and request an at-home or at-work pickup. 
On the day of service, customers receive updates via 
phone, text or e-mail to keep them informed of their 
vehicle’s progress, and it’s delivered back as soon as the 
service is complete.

The experience was well received, and dealerships saw a 
rise in customer satisfaction scores. In 2021, we expanded 
the popular service by making it available to all of our 
8.5 million FordPass Rewards members, adding an extra 
level of convenience for regular vehicle maintenance 
calls and showing our customers that we value their time. 
It also aligned with our aspiration to be the industry leader 
in remote services by the end of 2021, which includes 
hundreds of mobile service vans, loaner vehicles, and 
vouchers to ride-sharing services. 

Discover Your Ford 
The need for customer education doesn’t stop after the 
vehicle is delivered. It’s an ever-evolving journey, and as 
life events and vehicle uses change, so does the need for 
additional learning. Discover Your Ford, launched in 2021, 
caters to the different learning styles of customers to 
provide the best possible education experience. 

A user-friendly, direct-to-customer learning experience, 
Discover Your Ford offers customers the flexibility to 
discover more about their new vehicle when and where 
they want, including live stream sessions focused on 
specific vehicle features, a digital feature guide, and an 
on-demand video library full of short helpful tips on 
setting up and using their vehicle. 

Customers can even schedule a guided virtual tour, so 
they can video chat with a Ford product expert for a more 
personalized experience. The learning platform is initially 
targeted for the Ford F-150, Mustang Mach-E, Bronco 
Sport, and Bronco. More vehicles will be added as they 
become available.

Expanding Loyalty and Membership Programs 
Membership of our FordPass and Lincoln Way apps 
increased to more than 9 million members in the U.S. 
This community forms the foundation of our advocacy 
programs. In the U.S., our FordPass Rewards Visa 
rewards customers for everyday spending. Now we are 
strengthening our FordPass Rewards program – already 
one of the most comprehensive auto industry loyalty 
programs in North America – by adding Blue, Silver, 
and Bronze tiers to reward and recognize our most 
loyal customers. 

Each higher tier unlocks exclusive membership benefits, 
giving customers even more ways to redeem points. 
Members in the top two tiers, Silver and Blue, will be 
eligible for complimentary Pickup and Delivery services. 
Members also have access to exclusive partnership 
offers and discounts with Costco and others. Additionally, 
FordPass app customers have access to information on 
FordCredit and recalls, vehicle health alerts and access 
to emergency services, all at no cost. 

We are expanding the program through experiential tiers 
and the FordPass Rewards Visa Card, as we build out 
similar loyalty programs in other markets like Canada.

Ford Pro: Redefining Value for Commercial Customers
Ford Pro is the global business and brand within Ford 
dedicated to government and commercial customers 
of all sizes to help them accelerate productivity, improve 
uptime, and lower operating costs through connected 
services and work-ready gas and electric vehicles.

We are reinventing the entire customer experience with 
our new tech-enabled Ford Pro Solutions. Ford Pro 
Solutions Teams work with customers one-on-one 
throughout the journey to design, set up, and implement 
the right solution for their business – constantly 
evaluating needs and providing access to Ford Pro’s 
experts in areas like charging, data, and digital services. 

 
 
 


Customer Experience, Marketing and Satisfaction – continued

We’re going to give commercial 
customers even more reasons to 
choose and rely on Ford. Our team 
understands that when customers 
win, we win, so we’re completely 
focused on unlocking tremendous 
value for them.”

Ted Cannis, CEO, Ford Pro

They also work closely with dealers customizing solutions 
for their customers. For businesses that want to go 
electric, we don’t just email a set of directions. Customers 
can engage Ford Pro Solutions Teams to work hand-in-
hand on their transition, to help understand how they use 
their vehicles and help design, install, and operate the 
right charging infrastructure.

As Ford Pro grows its business, it is introducing Ford Pro 
Intelligence, a cloud-based platform that powers a suite 
of digital services that supports a commercial customer’s 
total fleet operation. 

The biggest pain point we hear from commercial 
customers about managing their fleet – even more than 
lowering costs – is not having a single place to access all 
of their information across vehicles and service. Ford Pro 
Intelligence solves this problem by integrating Salesforce 
with always-on access to the Ford Pro services they 
need to increase productivity and keep the focus on 
their customers.

Services, which are being rolled out in stages, are designed 
to generate higher levels of customer satisfaction and 
loyalty, include:

• Ford Pro Vehicles – Commercial trucks and vans,
including gas, diesel, hybrid, and electric versions,

76  |  

upfitting to meet the needs of almost any business – 
E-Transit and F-150 Lightning Pro are two of the 
latest examples of Ford’s continuing commercial 
vehicle innovation

• Ford Pro Charging – Integrated and end-to-end

solutions for home, public, and depot charging for
customers to make a seamless transition to electric
vehicles with customer support to help plan, install,
operate, and maintain an electric fleet

• Ford Pro Software – Business productivity tools

that link gas, diesel, and electric vehicles together
to manage fleets holistically, on Ford or non-Ford
vehicles, to improve uptime and cut costs

• Ford Pro Service – A network of commercial-focused

dealers across the country with uptime tools
embedded like mobile service which reduces downtime
by servicing customer needs where convenient for
their business

• Ford Pro Financing – Simplified financing, invoicing, and
bundled solutions to make back-office management as
hassle-free as possible

Ford Pro connected uptime tools combine data, digital 
services, and human support to get vehicles back into 
operation. This has shown a 40% reduction in days down 
in parts related cases. The network effect of Ford Pro’s 
connected solutions can potentially reduce total cost of 
ownership anywhere from 10% to 20%. 

Our Dealerships
Our dealers are on the front lines of customer engagement. 
Dealers are the face of Ford in their communities. In many 
cases our dealers are the first to introduce customers to 
Ford and Lincoln products, services and experiences.

Our dealers are transforming to meet the moment as 
customer behavior changes. 





Ford Pro Debuts
All-Electric E-Transit
The 2022 Ford E-Transit van, the all-electric 
version of the best-selling cargo van in the 
world5, is getting to work early. Through a Ford 
Pro pilot program, companies nationwide, such 
as Penske Truck Leasing and National Grid, 
have taken delivery of preproduction units of 
the E-Transit van with plans to use early 
learnings that will help deployment into their 
operations when the vehicle arrives to market 
early in 2022. 

In June 2021, Ford launched SecuriAlert in 
Europe, Ford’s smartphone-powered security 
system which helps vehicle owners feel 
more at ease regarding the safety of their car. 
The system operates by sending a notification 
to the vehicle owner’s smartphone when it 
identifies activity around the vehicle, such as 
attempts to open doors or gain access with a 
key, providing peace of mind to customers when 
their cars are out of sight – or out of earshot.

Ford has extensive dealer training through a formal dealer 
employee training curriculum. Included in this program 
are courses related to financing and financial services 
with Ford. To ensure responsible financing of our dealers, 
we monitor customer concerns and work with dealers 
to resolve the complaints. In 2021, we worked with a 
third party on a global survey to help our dealers better 
understand their environment and their communities. 
We leveraged dealer council and national meetings 
to drive home the thought “I need to represent my 
community.” Not only is it the right thing to do, but it 
increases business opportunities as well.

More than 20 dealer interviews were conducted to gain 
insights and share best practices. We learned about 
great initiatives our dealers have, such as female employee 
lunch and learns, flexible hours program and remote 
work options for employees, and employee conversation 
meetings to share experiences. Best practice sharing will 
help all dealers identify their own gaps and provide ideas 
on how to better acquire, develop, and retain key talent.

 


Customer Experience, Marketing and Satisfaction – continued

We see this as a long-term initiative that will strengthen 
the customer experience while improving our dealers’ 
business. The work done was presented to the Ford 
National Dealer Council, who are now supporting us 
in raising awareness at all Ford Dealerships.

Reimagining Business as Usual
The COVID-19 pandemic forced Ford and our dealers to 
reimagine “business as usual.” The new normal includes 
more remote and touchless experiences, as people 
shop for and reserve cars online. The pandemic has 
accelerated digital, remote, and touchless experiences 
as customers are engaging in new ways. This spurred us 
to accelerate digital, remote, and touchless experiences 
and also to make strategic choices, prioritizing work that 
leads to transformational change. 

As the pandemic continues, we’ve employed return-to-
work playbooks, staff training sessions, cleaning protocols, 
personal protective equipment (PPE), and other health 
and safety protocols to keep our employees and 
customers safe.

Lincoln’s Partnership with Calm
Our commitment to wellbeing has never been stronger.
To help customers in their pursuit of mental wellbeing, 
Lincoln has partnered with Calm, a leading meditation 
and mindfulness app, to offer owners a complimentary 
one-year premium membership to the service. 

Sales and After-Sales Service
To meet the demand for a touchless experience, we have 
expanded our pickup and delivery service from a few pilot 
stores to a global program that delivered more than 
100,000 remote service events in 2021. In China, we’ve 
completed almost 30,000 pickup and delivery events 
for Ford and Lincoln customers, and seen a 30% uptick 
in demand for this service through the WeChat app. 

Customers want the flexibility to learn about their new 
vehicle, when and where they want. In the U.S. we’ve 
introduced Discover Your Ford, a user-friendly customer 
education program that includes guided virtual tours, 
live stream sessions, a digital feature guide, and an 
on-demand video library. In South America, we launched 
the pre-onboarding Virtual Booking and 360Guide.

Once their car has been delivered, our customers are 
looking for more remote and digital solutions as well as 
experiences that offer ease, convenience, transparency, 
and personalization. We developed our Mobile Service 
program to bring vehicle maintenance and light service 
to our U.K. and U.S. customers at home or work. Mobile 
service is also being deployed in key International Markets 
such as Thailand where we are also modernizing with 
Remote Technical Assistance for Dealers through SWIS 
“See What I See” utilizing high tech headsets for two 
way communication between Dealer Technicians and 
Ford Engineers.

Treating customers like 
family is at the heart of 
everything we do. Delivering 
a better customer experience 
is what differentiates Ford, 
strengthens relationships 
and increases loyalty.”

Elena Ford, 
Chief Customer Experience Officer

77  |  





Ford and Sonoma
Winegrowers Team
Up to Electrify
Farming Business

The Sonoma County Wine Growers, with more 
than 1,800 members in Northern California, is 
planning to advance its sustainability efforts, with 
the help of the Ford Pro suite of electric vehicles, 
charging and telematics services. Ford Pro and 
the growers are launching a pilot program that will 
add F-150 Lightning Pro pickups, E-Transit cargo 
vans, and Ford Pro Intelligence products and 
services to three pilot farms. 

The farms are being outfitted with Ford Pro 
charging stations to complement the solar power 
that has been a critical part of the group’s push 
for sustainability since 2014. Ford Pro Intelligence 
services are expected to help optimize their gas 
and electric fleets by providing always-on access 
to vehicle health reports and other data that help 
reduce operating costs, vehicle downtime, and 
fuel consumption.

The heart of the mission: to demonstrate how 
electric vehicles and web-based fleet management 
tools can help the agriculture industry increase 
productivity, improve sustainability, and lower the 
total cost of fleet ownership.

 
 


Customer Experience, Marketing and Satisfaction – continued






FordPass App Helps
Rescue Stolen Transit
Full of Dogs
Ford is now equipping all new vehicles with 
built-in modems as standard to add vast 
connected vehicle functionality, including the 
ability to pinpoint locations remotely. This 
feature came in handy in the U.K. when a 
man’s Transit Custom, with a bunch of dogs in 
the back, was stolen. The dogs were dropped 
off and found later in a park. The thieves’ next 
move in the Transit showed up on FordPass, 
which traced the van to another part of the 
park where police seized the vehicle. 

Time is money for our hard-working business customers; 
so we’re focused on keeping them on the road through 
programs like Ford Pro and our Ranger Support Teams 
in Australia, Thailand, and South Africa. 

Responsible Marketing
When it comes to our marketing and advertising we want 
to ensure that we are representing the diversity of our 
customer base and their perspectives in an authentic 
way. To that end, our focus on diversity, equity, and 
inclusion extends beyond who we show in our advertising 
to how we source the creative development and 
production of our content across all mediums.

We have programs in place to ensure that we are not only 
giving opportunities to content creators from 
underrepresented groups but we are also trying to 
provide training and mentorship on our sets and 
throughout our marketing process. 

We are also pushing to produce our marketing assets 
as sustainably as possible and continue to grow best 
practices from our EVs all the way through to how we 
shoot social content.

Our four initiatives on Responsible marketing include:

• Ford is a member of Green the Bid. Through this

partnership we are trying to guide the shift in marketing
commercial production industry towards sustainable
and regenerative practices.

• As a founding partner of Free the Work, Ford champions
underrepresented creators across different rolls within
marketing commercial production process.

• Ford is also a sponsor of the Streetlights program where

we fund and support entry level on set production
training as well as union qualification days for people
in established rolls. All of this is in support of providing
training and job placement across different marketing
production roles for people in underrepresented groups
who have not gotten access before.

• Ford has also pledged with AICP’s Double the Line

effort. With this pledge, we fund paid, on set training
for black, indigenous, and people of color (BIPOC)
candidates to get useful experience in the marketing
production industry.

As a company we are interested in helping all of our 
customers pursue their dreams. We work to assure that our 
marketing, product offerings, and services meet the needs 
of and attract our current customers as well as potential 
customers from a broad variety of backgrounds. And we 
always assure that all of our marketing work is routinely 
monitored and reviewed for legal and compliance.

 Technology for All



Making advanced technologies available 
to millions of people has been part of 
Ford’s DNA since its founder Henry Ford 
introduced the Model T to open highways 
to all mankind. That spirit guides our 
approach to new innovations, including 
remaining the only automaker to offer 
complimentary FordPass features such as 
remote vehicle starting and unlocking and 
SYNC 911 Assist that can automatically 
call emergency responders after a crash. 
Meantime, other automakers have 
moved these highly desirable features 
to subscriptions with monthly costs.

78  |  

 
 
 


Protecting the
Environment

Creating Responsible
and Ethical Growth

 Inspiring the

Next Generation
of STEM Careers



Socioeconomic 
Contribution 
and Community 
Engagement

September marks Global Caring Month, our annual 
month-long focus on community service and giving back. 
In 2021, Ford Fund awarded $700,000 in grants to support 
the humanitarian efforts of 149 employee-nominated 
community organizations in 34 countries. 

Ford Volunteer Corps
Managed by Ford Fund, Ford Volunteer Corps is a 
global network of thousands of Ford employees and 
retirees who have logged more than 1.7 million hours 
volunteering across six continents since 2005 — 
building homes or gardens, renovating schools, feeding 
the hungry, installing clean water systems, and more. 

Strengthening Communities 
Through our philanthropic arm, the Ford Motor Company 
Fund (Ford Fund), we work with nonprofit organizations, 
community partners and across the global Ford network 
to provide access to resources and opportunities that 
build equity and help underserved and underrepresented 
communities reach their highest potential. 

In 2021, Ford Motor Company and Ford Fund invested 
$74.4 million in charitable contributions to help strengthen 
and serve communities around the world. Our initiatives 
included empowering nurses to run their own mobile 
healthcare centers, serving communities that need health 
services the most, providing vocational training to Thai 
children living on the street, supporting literacy and STEM 
activities for students in the United Kingdom and more.

Our desire to build a better world has always been a part of 
Ford. Our community engagement work dovetails with our 
Human Rights and Climate Change initiatives as we work 
to strengthen communities and make people’s lives better. 

Mobilizing Our Team to Support Communities
Ford is proud to have employees who lead the charge 
in community engagement, not just within the company, 
but also within their professional fields and local 
communities. Each year, tens of thousands of employees 
around the world volunteer in community service 
projects, bringing skill, enthusiasm, and teamwork to 
nonprofits, helping to get essential jobs done while the 
organizations focus on serving people in need. 

79  |  

In order to inspire the next generation 
of inventors and mobility makers and 
build the workforce of tomorrow, we 
must engage today’s students with the 
STEM subjects of science, technology, 
engineering, and math. To that end, 
Ford has been at work over the past three 
decades creating vibrant, cutting-edge 
educational opportunities that change 
lives. These programs engage thousands 
of middle school, high school, and college 
students, who go on to make a big impact 
in their STEM careers.

For example, Ford is Strategic Partner 
of FIRST®, helping to build engineers 
and scientists of the future. We actively 
sponsor teams in 87 high schools and 
in 136 elementary and middle schools 
located across the United States. More 
than 240 Ford employees mentor students 
during the year, working together to 
sharpen students’ knowledge of STEM. 
In Detroit, we’ve sponsored the Detroit 
Hispanic Development Corp.’s FIRST 
Robotic Competition teams, as well as 
creating a career technical education 
program and providing funding to update 
their machining shop.

The Ford Motorsports team is leaning into 
DEI and STEM as well, using racing to rev 
up engineering interests among Detroit 
high school girls. Teammates partnered 
with the Girls in Engineering Academy to 
create workshops that expose the girls to 
aerodynamics, wind tunnels, pit stop 
demonstrations, and more. The girls also 
met the inspiring Shelby Hall, a top Ford 
off-roading racer. 

240

Ford employees mentor 
students during the year

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Contents

Ford
Fundamentals

Our Sustainability 
Strategy 

Driving Innovation and
Sustainable Growth

Putting
People First

Protecting the
Environment

Creating Responsible
and Ethical Growth

Socioeconomic Contribution and Community Engagement – continued

Investing in Communities Through Ford Fund
In our corporate home of Southeastern Michigan and 
around the world, Ford Fund develops and funds 
initiatives that meet basic needs, provide access to 
essential services, help build new skill sets, and open 
pathways to high-quality jobs. Key 2021 highlights include: 

• Ford Resource and Engagement Centers are a Ford

Fund innovation that brings nonprofit partners together
in a collaborative environment to support surrounding
communities. Following months of limited or modified
programming, all five of our global community resource
centers reopened for in-person programming and
services. Our two facilities in Detroit, along with centers
in Romania, South Africa, and Thailand served residents
with essential food distribution, tax and legal services,
entrepreneurship programs, job training, and more.

• Through the Motor City Kares initiative, we provided
two Black-owned Michigan dental providers with
custom Ford Transit vans converted into mobile dental
clinics to provide access to critically-needed oral
healthcare services to residents in Southwest Detroit
and across Southeast Michigan.

• Ford’s investment in restoring the historic Michigan
Central Station and surrounding buildings and area
into a new 30-acre mobility innovation district expands
our reach in the Detroit area. Michigan Central serves
as an open platform for partnerships, bringing
together innovators, established brands, educators,
policymakers, foundations and investors from Detroit
and around the world in a dynamic urban ecosystem
to co-create mobility solutions that can help make
the world better, more accessible for everyone. Ford
and other partners are also creating educational
and alternative learning solutions at Michigan Central,
designed to skill and reskill people for the jobs of today
and the future. These programs will target underserved
and underrepresented groups, building a better world
in the communities where we work.

• Leveraging the company’s mobility expertise, we are
using a low-speed autonomous vehicle shuttle to
deliver 10,000 pounds of fresh food to mobility-
challenged seniors in the Michigan Central impact
area in Southwest Detroit during a six-month pilot.

Read more in Mobility Solutions and Autonomous Vehicles 

section on p.51

• Disaster relief is an important aspect of Ford Fund’s
work. Around the world, we contributed more than
$1.3 million to disaster relief efforts in 2021. We donated
$100,000 and mobilized more than 2,000 employee
volunteers to support flash flooding relief in Germany.
In the U.S., we worked closely with emergency response
organizations, nonprofit partners, local Ford dealers,
and regional team members to assist with relief and
recovery efforts following Hurricane Ida and the
devastating tornadoes in Kentucky.

• Through numerous mentoring, entrepreneurship,

and educational initiatives, we helped hundreds of
thousands of students, women, Black, and Hispanic
people of all ages and stages of life build new skillsets,
remove barriers to economic success and create
opportunities for growth. For example, in 2021 Ford
Fund awarded $50,000 in grants to the winners of
a pitch competition focused on social enterprises
run by women.

COVID: #FinishStrong
Supporting communities as they continue to battle 
the ongoing consequences of the pandemic remained 
a focus in 2021. 

• A leader in COVID mitigation efforts, we were one of
the first automakers to continuously make personal
protective equipment for our workforce, healthcare
workers, first responders, and the public. In March 2021,
we fulfilled our commitment to donate 120 million
masks to at-risk communities with limited access to

80  |  

PPE. Working with Ford Fund’s nationwide network of 
nonprofit partners, we provided adult and child-sized 
masks to community organizations, Ford dealers, 
state and local officials, schools, and first responders 
in all 50 states.

• Through Ford Fund’s longstanding partnerships in the
Black and Hispanic communities, we brought together
CEOs from 11 of the nation’s leading multicultural
organizations in a #VaxWithFacts public service
announcement to provide trusted info about the
COVID-19 vaccine. The organizations featured in
the public service announcement are all members
of Ford Fund’s multicultural advisory committee.
Created in 2017, the committee serves as an advisory
council to help Ford Fund and each of the participating
nonprofits shares insights into key issues affecting
communities of color.

• We opened a community vaccine center in Craiova,

Romania, and administered more than 14,600
vaccinations to some of the community’s most
vulnerable residents.

• When COVID cases surged in India and Brazil, we

provided $200,000 in emergency funding to assist
nongovernmental organizations delivering food,
cleaning supplies, and other essential items.

• In partnership with Ford South America, we distributed
food, hygiene, and medical kits to more than 8,000
families in Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Peru,
and Venezuela.



Read more about how we strengthened and served 
communities in 2021 in the Ford Fund annual report

120M

masks donated fulfilling our 
commitment to at-risk communities

1.7M

employee volunteer hours since 2005

More than

$2.2B

invested to strengthen communities 
since 1949

 
 
  
 
 
Contents

Ford 
Fundamentals 

Our Sustainability 
Strategy 

Driving Innovation and  
Sustainable Growth 

Putting  
People First 

PrProoteteccttiinngg t thhee  
EEnnvivirroonnmenmentt 

Creating Responsible 
and Ethical Growth 

Building a  
Healthier Planet

Protecting the Environment

81  |  

Contents

Ford 
Fundamentals 

Our Sustainability 
Strategy 

Driving Innovation and  
Sustainable Growth 

Putting  
People First 

Protecting the 
Environment 

Creating Responsible 
and Ethical Growth 

This generation is the first to feel the impact of 
climate change, and the last that can do anything 
about it. Ford is leading the electric revolution and 
standing for stronger standards to protect both 
people and the environment as we progress towards 
a zero-emissions transportation future. We have 
always been a leader in sustainability and are 
continuing in our efforts to leave future generations 
with a cleaner planet.” 

Bob Holycross, Vice President, 
Chief Sustainability, Environment and Safety Officer 

82  |  

Overview 

We’re doing our part to address the urgency of 
climate change and accelerating our progress 
to carbon neutrality no later than 2050 

We’re reimagining how EVs – and the batteries that power 
them – are designed, manufactured, and recycled, creating 
an all-new electric vehicle ecosystem. And creating good 
jobs and a growing business that delivers value for 
everyone who relies on Ford. 

We’re aiming to achieve carbon neutrality no 
later than 2050. 
Ford is committed to being fully carbon neutral 
worldwide across our vehicles, facilities, and suppliers 
no later than 2050. 

We’re accelerating the electrification revolution. 
We’re acting now to ramp up production of our zero-
emissions vehicles. We’ve pledged to work towards sales 
of all new cars and vans being zero-emission globally by 
2040 and are on track to have 50% of our global vehicle 
mix fully electric by 2030. 



Read more about our road to Carbon neutrality on p.84 

Our Sustainability Aspirations 

We’re matching our ambition with action. 
Ford is the only full-line U.S. automaker to align with 
the Paris Agreement and to stand with the California Air 
Resources Board in support of stronger GHG standards 
from vehicles. 

We’re changing how our products are made. 
We’re reducing the effects of our operations and supply 
chains through world-class facilities, including our 
commitment to sourcing 100 percent carbon-free 
electricity for our global operations by 2035. By using 
recycled and renewable materials in our vehicles’ design, 
we’re reducing landfill waste and using fewer natural 
resources. 



Read more about our Sustainable Financing Framework on p.27 

Sustainable Development Goals 
We are contributing to the following UN Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs): 

Climate Change: Achieve carbon  
neutrality no later than 2050 

Energy: Use 100 percent carbon-free 
electricity in all manufacturing by 2035 

Air: Attain zero emissions from  
our vehicles and facilities 

Materials: Utilize only recycled or renewable  
content in vehicle plastics 

Water: Make zero water withdrawals  
for manufacturing processes 

Use freshwater only for human consumption 

Waste: Reach true zero waste to landfill  
across our operations 

Eliminate single-use plastics from 
our operations by 2030

Contents

Ford 
Fundamentals 

Our Sustainability 
Strategy 

Driving Innovation and  
Sustainable Growth 

Putting  
People First 

Protecting the 
Environment 

Creating Responsible 
and Ethical Growth 

Climate Change: Achieve carbon  
neutrality no later than 2050

Read more about this Salient Human Rights issue in our  
Human Rights Report 

Achieving Carbon Neutrality 

Our climate is changing faster than the world 
can keep up. Rising sea levels, droughts and 
forest fires indicate the urgency of the situation. 
A comprehensive effort is needed to meet the 
goals of the Paris Agreement. 

In fact, Ford is working to minimize its impact on climate 
change aligned with the United Nations Framework 
Convention on Climate Change (Paris Agreement). We are 
committed to doing our part – it’s a strategic priority, one 
of our salient human rights issues, and integral to our 
purpose of helping make a better world. And it’s driving 
our transition to electrification and our goal of achieving 
carbon neutrality no later than 2050. 

Our Long-Term Aspirations and Near-Term Commitments 
To achieve our carbon neutrality goal, we are focusing 
on three areas that account for approximately 95% of 
our CO2 emissions – our vehicles, our operations, and 
our supply chain. The steps we’re taking are: 

• Electrifying our iconic vehicles beginning with the

Mustang Mach-E, the F-150 Lightning, and the E-Transit.
By 2026, we expect annual production of more than
2 million EVs. By 2030, we expect EVs to represent half
of global volume. In Europe, we expect 100% of our cars
to be fully electric by 2030. Two-thirds of commercial
vehicle sales in Europe will be all-electric or plug-in
hybrid by 2030 and all commercial vehicles in Europe
will be zero emission by 2035.

83  |  

• Investing in EV technology and charging infrastructure
to remove obstacles to electrification. We’re investing
$50 billion in electric vehicles and battery production
from 2022 through 2026.

• Investing in sustainable manufacturing to create an

utlra-efficient, carbon-neutral manufacturing
ecosystem. Our new mega-sites in Tennessee and
Kentucky are ushering in an era of sustainable electric
vehicle manufacturing.

• Working with our suppliers to reduce their emissions

and develop science-based emissions reduction targets
in line with the Paris Agreement.

Achieving our long-term carbon neutrality goal is 
ambitious and complex. To ensure near-term progress, we 
have developed science-based interim targets and joined 
global coalitions working towards our common goal. 

For example, Ford joined RouteZero, a global coalition 
working towards all sales of new cars and vans being 
zero-emissions globally by 2040, and no later than 2035 
in leading markets. 

This builds on our previous commitments to President 
Biden’s agenda to reduce GHG emissions in the United 
States by 50-52% by 2030, have 50% of our global sales 
volume being EVs by 2030, the UN’s Business Ambition 
Pledge for 1.5°C, and to the New Deal for Europe initiative 
to devise a comprehensive Sustainable Europe 2030 
Strategy. We’ve also joined the U.S. Department 
of Energy’s Better Climate Challenge to reduce GHG 
emissions from our facilities by at least half in the 
same timeframe. 

The above pledges are backed by interim targets 
approved by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi). 
Our emissions targets call for a 76% reduction in Scope 1 
and 2 GHG emissions by 2035 from a 2017 base year, and 
a 50% reduction in Scope 3 GHG emission per vehicle 
kilometer from use of sold products by 2035 from a 2019 
base year. 

Future Carbon-Neutral Transportation

Carbon Capture:
Atmospheric or Industrial CO2, Biomass

CO2 or C

Carbon 
Sequestration (CCS)

Fossil
Fuels+ CCS

Electricity
Generation

Electricity

H2

Electrolysis

E-fuel
Production

E-Fuels
Biofuels

EV

FCEV

ICEV, HEV, PHEW

Water

EV: Electric vehicle; CCS: carbon capture and storage; FCEV: fuel cell electric vehicle; HEV: hybrid
electric vehicle; ICEV: internal combustion engine vehicle; PHEV: plug-in hybrid electric vehicle

This goes beyond tailpipe emissions, and includes reducing 
vehicle emissions from a fuel-cycle perspective (well-to-
wheels) which include the production and consumption of 
fuel during vehicle use. Our Scope 1 and 2 operations target 
is aligned with the SBTi 1.5°C path, while our use of sold 
products (vehicle) target is consistent with the well-below 
2°C target. These targets do not include offsets and are 
strictly GHG reduction targets. 

Addressing climate change is a global issue that no 
company, industry, country, or organization can achieve 
on its own. It will require collaboration to drive progress. 

76%

target emissions reduction in Scope 1 and 2 
GHG emissions by 2035 from a 2017 base year 

50%

reduction in Scope 3 GHG emission per vehicle 
kilometer from use of sold products by 2035 
from a 2019 base year

Contents

Ford 
Fundamentals 

Our Sustainability 
Strategy 

Driving Innovation and  
Sustainable Growth 

Putting  
People First 

Protecting the 
Environment 

Creating Responsible 
and Ethical Growth 

Climate Change – continued

The Road To Carbon Neutrality 

NEAR 

2025 

• 70k+ Charging Network
•  Launch F-150 Lightning, All-Electric E-Transit

• Dearborn truck plant, Michigan assembly plant and several

new buildings on our Research and Engineering and Corktown
campuses powered by 100% renewable electricity

•  Suppliers submit GHG reduction targets

•  In 2 years have 600,000 EV capacity

• BlueOval City building electric F-Series and

battery packs with SK Innovation

• All Michigan manufacturing facilities sourced

with 100% carbon-free electricity

• North American and EU new programs launched with

20% recycled and renewable content in plastics
(programs from China and Turkey with 10%)

2030 

• EV Commitments

• Globally: 50% 
• U.S.: 50% 
• EU: 100% of passenger cars, 2/3 of commercial vehicles sales
• Lincoln: 100%

• Reduce GHG emissions from U.S. manufacturing

facilities 50% (Better Climate Initiative)

• Eliminate single-use plastics from our operations

2026 

• Invested $50B in EVs
• 100% passenger vehicle range in

Europe will be zero-emissions capable, 
all-electric or plug-in hybrid

2035 

2040 

• Meet SBTi Commitments (76% reduction in

facilities, 50% reduction in vehicle use emissions)
• Work towards 100% zero-emission cars and vans

in leading markets (RouteZero pledge)

• 100% carbon-free electricity for our global operations
• 100% of commercial vehicle sales in Europe will be zero-emission

• Work towards 100%

zero-emission cars and vans
globally (RouteZero pledge)

84  |  





Ford Joins Global
Climate Change Pledge
Ford is proud to work with RouteZero, a global 
coalition working towards 100% fully electric 
vehicles globally by 2040, and in leading 
markets no later than 2035. 

At COP26, the UN Climate Summit in 
November 2021, Ford joined with more than 
50 businesses, cities and regions committed 
to rapidly accelerating the transition to zero-
emission vehicles to achieve the goals of the 
Paris Agreement. 

Signatories also committed to “supporting 
a global, equitable, and Just Transition.” 

2050 

Carbon 
Neutrality 

It is fundamental to our company 
values that we continue to lead 
the way in reducing the impact our 
plants have on the environment. 
We are committed to long-term 
sustainability and delivering 
environmental initiatives that are 
good for people, good for the 
planet, and good for Ford.” 

Andrea Cavallaro, Operations Director, International 
Markets Group and South America

 
 
Contents

Ford 
Fundamentals 

Our Sustainability 
Strategy 

Driving Innovation and  
Sustainable Growth 

Putting  
People First 

Protecting the 
Environment 

Creating Responsible 
and Ethical Growth 


We will continue to work with partners in the public and 
private sector including the Climate Leadership Council 
and the Center for Climate and Energy Solutions Business 
and Environmental Leadership Council. Our goal is to 
show our leadership and advocate for stronger GHG 
standards, climate resiliency, and infrastructure that 
help remove obstacles and build the market for 
electric vehicles. 

Ford’s Approach and Progress Toward 
Our Aspirations 
Our current climate strategy, built on our long history of 
using science-based GHG pathways, is focused on the 
deep decarbonization of our value chain and aims to 
integrate consumer wants and needs, the possibilities of 
technology, and the requirements for business success. 
Our carbon-neutral approach analyzes information on the 
environment, customers, technology, legislation, energy, 
competitive approaches, and life cycle assessments 
(LCAs). As climate science and technology develops, 
we will further refine and adjust our science-based GHG 
targets to accelerate our progress. 

Here are some key highlights on Ford’s progress and 
approach. More detailed information can be found in 
the Reducing our Vehicle CO2 section below. 

Vehicles 
Electrification is a key strategy to address the urgency 
of climate change. However, for the transition to 
electrification to be successful, we must make the 
electric vehicles that our customers want and demand. 
We are responding by taking our most iconic, popular 
vehicles electric – the Mustang Mach-E, F-150 Lightning, 
and E-Transit. 

Currently we are on track to achieve 50% fully electric 
vehicle sales globally by 2030, and 100% fully electric 
passenger vehicle sales in Europe. Two-thirds of 

85  |  

commercial vehicle sales in Europe will be all-electric 
or plug-in hybrid by 2030 and all commercial vehicles 
in Europe will be zero emission by 2035. 

Operations 
Our operational goals include both Scope 1 and 2 
emissions for manufacturing and non-manufacturing 
locations. To achieve these goals, we are focusing 
on improving efficiency and increasing our use of 
carbon-free electricity. 

In addition to our 2035 SBTi target, we have committed 
to reduce our global manufacturing Scope 1 and 2 GHG 
emissions by 18% by 2023 from a 2017 base year. 

As an example, our new BlueOval City assembly plant 
in Tennessee is designed to be carbon neutral, send zero 
waste to landfill, and use freshwater only for human 
consumption at the start of production in 2025. 

Helping Our Dealers to Reduce Carbon Footprint 
In Germany, we support our dealers with energy 
consulting services to reduce their carbon footprint, 
resulting in 5,000 tons of CO2 reduction for 200 dealers. 

Suppliers 
Our new Supplier Code of Conduct mandates that all Tier 1 
production suppliers minimize their impact on climate 
change aligned with the United Nations Framework 
Convention on Climate Change (Paris Agreement), striving 
towards carbon neutrality. It also requires that our 
suppliers enforce a similar code of practice and require 
that their subcontractors do the same. The Supplier Code 
of Conduct requires suppliers to: 

• Report their Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions and water

usage data to Ford if requested. 

•   Establish science-based GHG reduction targets, 

action plans, and transparent reporting mechanisms. 

This year we conducted a supplier survey to identify each 
supplier’s GHG reduction targets. If they did not yet have 
one, they are required to submit their targets by the end 
of 2022. Then we can develop a joint roadmap with our 
suppliers on our journey towards carbon neutrality. 

We have also established internal targets for increasing 
engagement with our supply chain partners, including 
building on our successful CDP Supply Chain reporting 
program and our Partnership for A Cleaner Environment 
(PACE) programs. 

Supporting Our Customers 
Ford is building the future of zero-emissions vehicles 
and breaking constraints to lead the electric revolution, 
investing $50 billion from 2022 through 2026 in electric 
vehicles and the batteries that power them. We’re not 
only electrifying our signature nameplates in areas where 
millions of customers already rely on Ford vehicles, we’re 
showing our customers the clear advantages of electric 
vehicles – from sustainability to performance, power, 
and digital integration, Ford is creating capacity, 
capability, and convenience in our vehicles that were 
never possible before. 

F-150 Lightning Charges into the Future 
Electrification amplifies the attributes our customers 
love, such as performance, capability and convenience. 
For example, F-Series, America’s best-selling truck 
for 45 years, charges into the future with the F-150 
Lightning – a powerhouse that delivers a targeted 563 
horsepower and 775 lb.-ft. of torque6 – the most torque 
of any F-150 ever – a smooth, quiet, and exhilarating 
drive, a high-tech front trunk, and the ability to power 
your home for at least three days, if needed. 

Within our new line-up, disruptive technology allows 
us to enrich the customer experience and make the 
transition to electric vehicles simple. 

Ford Europe 
Ford of Europe’s clear vision to be “All in on EVs” is 
central to us achieving our sustainability objectives. 
Not only does it address the largest portion of our 
CO2 emissions as a region, it provides a sustainable 
foundation and catalyst for further change, as we 
drive forward our carbon neutrality plans for our 
facilities, supply chain and transportation network. 

We are well on the way to achieving our objective of 
76% reduction in scope 1 and 2 emissions and 100% 
carbon-free electricity in our manufacturing operations 
by 2035. We are now focused on developing plans to 
address one our biggest challenges, how to transition 
our extensive, global supply base to carbon neutrality. 

100%

carbon-free electricity in our 
manufacturing operations by 2035

 
 
Contents

Ford 
Fundamentals 

Our Sustainability 
Strategy 

Driving Innovation and  
Sustainable Growth 

Putting  
People First 

Protecting the 
Environment 

Creating Responsible 
and Ethical Growth 

Climate Change – continued

At Ford, we understand the urgency 
of climate change, and we have a 
role to play. We are delivering 
exciting electric vehicles for the 
many rather than the few. As we 
take leadership of the electric 
vehicle revolution, our goal is to not 
only build high-quality vehicles at 
scale, but to do so in a way that 
creates a positive impact on people 
and the environment.” 

Cynthia Williams, Global Director Sustainability,  
Homologation and Compliance 

86  |  

Built-in charging solutions route customers to nearby 
charging stations, recommend where to charge on trips 
2 
and provide easy access and payment via FordPass  
for a seamless customer experience. 

For public consumption, the BlueOval Charging network 
has over 250,000 charge points in Europe – and it’s 
growing — helping give customers confidence that they 
can get where they want to go. In Europe, Ford is a 
founding member and shareholder in the IONITY 
consortium – delivering high-power charging stations 
along motorway routes and at key European locations. 
The number of IONITY high-power charging points will 
more than quadruple to around 7,000 by 2025. 





Read more in our TCFD Report 

Read more in our U.S. Political Engagement report 

Read more in our We Are Committed to Protecting Human 

Rights and the Environment policy 

Reducing Our Vehicle Carbon Footprint 

Life Cycle Assessment of Our Vehicles 
Cutting GHG emissions associated with the use of our 
vehicles is central to our goal of carbon neutrality by 2050. 
We use a range of analytical tools to identify and measure 
the potential environmental and cost impacts of our 
vehicles or services over their life cycle, from the acquisition 
of raw materials, through vehicle production, distribution 
and use, to end-of-life disposal or recycling. Understanding 
these impacts helps us reduce our environmental footprint. 

In terms of GHG impact, vehicle use is the main source 
of emissions. Use-phase CO2 emissions depend on many 
factors, including the energy source and the way the 
vehicles are driven. Using the GHG Protocol methodology 
and preliminary data to estimate emissions from vehicle 
on-road use, we calculate that our vehicles sold in 2021 
will produce approximately 250 million metric tons of 
CO2e from fuel production and combustion over a 
150,000 mile lifetime, on a well-to-wheels basis. 

A Portfolio Approach 

Vehicles

Fuel

Customers 

Accessible lower-carbon options: 
• Advanced propulsion options 

• Electrified vehicles 
• Fuel cell vehicles 
• New engine/transmission technologies 

• Aerodynamic improvements 
• Weight reductions 

Developing vehicles that use lower-carbon 
fuels: 
• Electricity 
• Biofuels 
• Compressed natural gas (CNG) 
• Liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) 
• Hydrogen 
• Carbon-neutral e-fuels 

Providing options for different vehicles and fuels, 
and how those vehicles will be maintained 

Promoting “eco-driving” through training, 
information, and in-vehicle technology 





Supply Chain Responsibility

Supply chain responsibility is best addressed in 
partnership with other manufacturers and suppliers. 
Thus, the German Association of the Automotive 
Industry (VDA) founded the Responsible Supply 
Chain Initiative (RSCI) with 14 founding members 
from the automotive industry. We are working with 
the VDA and others to improve our understanding 
of supply chain risks and to help the suppliers with a 
consistent approach. As a result, RSCI is developing 
a standardized test procedure for evaluating the 
sustainability performance of automotive suppliers. 
RSCI is launching initial pilot assessments in 2022. 
The RSCI audit platform will facilitate suppliers’ 
sharing of audit results and avoiding any duplication 
of efforts. 

Minimizing our Supply Chain Impacts 
We rely on thousands of suppliers to provide 
materials, components, and services for our 
vehicles. By sharing what has worked well at Ford, 
we can help them cut costs, improve quality, and 
become more sustainable. We engage with our 
supply chain to understand our collective 

environmental footprint and work with selected 
suppliers through target setting and cascading best 
practices to reduce their carbon emissions, energy 
consumption, water use, and waste. 

By sharing successful initiatives with nearly 80 key 
suppliers through our Partnership for a Cleaner 
Environment (PACE) program, we are cascading 
best practices through our supply chain. So far, our 
suppliers have implemented projects in at least 13 
countries: United States, Argentina, Brazil, Canada, 
China, Czech Republic, Germany, India, Mexico, 
Poland, Serbia, South Africa, and Thailand. Around 
182 million gallons of water savings are expected 
between 2020 and 2030 through PACE suppliers. 
FastPACE, a streamlined version of PACE, is helping 
reduce the impact of key partners in China, India, 
Thailand, and South Africa. Supplier participation 
has increased from 2020 to 2021 by over 60%. As a 
result, FastPACE suppliers are on track to save an 
estimated 4,909 metric tons of CO2 and 24 million 
gallons of water over the next three years.

 
 
Contents

Ford 
Fundamentals 

Our Sustainability 
Strategy 

Driving Innovation and  
Sustainable Growth 

Putting  
People First 

Protecting the 
Environment 

Creating Responsible 
and Ethical Growth 

Climate Change – continued

Electrification represents the most 
transformative change of our 
industry in over 100 years and at 
Ford of Europe, we are leading the 
way in our ambition to create a 
sustainably profitable all-electric 
future. We’re doing this with both 
passenger vehicles and commercial 
vehicles, providing customer choice 
while delivering CO2 performance.” 

Stuart Rowley, President 
Ford of Europe 

CDP Carbon: Ford 2021 Reported Emissions

Vehicles-tailpipe  
(TTW): 77%
Vehicles-energy production  

(WTT): 7%
Suppliers: 13%
Misc: 2%
Facilities: 1%

Well to Wheel (WTW) = Well to Tank (WTT) + Tank to Wheel (TTW)

95%+

of our emissions are from vehicle use, 
facilities and suppliers. Now reporting WTW 
vs. TTW vehicle emissions In keeping with our 
recently approved science based targets

Although we focus on improving tailpipe or tank-to-
wheels (TTW) emissions, we also continue to study 
well-to-wheels (WTW) impacts in keeping with our 
carbon-neutrality aspiration. These include the 
production (well-to-tank, or WTT) and consumption 
(TTW) of fuel and electricity during vehicle use. WTW 
emissions vary between vehicle, engine type, and energy 
source. Our Scope 3 SBTi vehicle CO2 target is based on 
WTW emissions. 

We acknowledge the fact that WTT emissions are part of 
the total vehicle life cycle; however, these emissions are 
beyond our direct control. We, therefore, look to address 
these impacts in collaboration with a range of partners, 
including fuel and electricity producers, infrastructure 
developers, and governments. 

Advances in Engine and Transmission Technologies 
Gasoline Engines 
As we develop our electric vehicles, we are ensuring 
that our internal combustion engine (ICE) powertrains 
continue to provide a desirable balance of performance, 
fuel economy, and durability while meeting increasingly 
stringent criteria emissions requirements. Our EcoBoost 
engines are deployed across nearly 100% of the portfolio, 
and combine engine downsizing, turbocharging, direct 
fuel injection, and twin-independent variable cam timing 
to improve fuel economy without compromising 
performance. 

We’ve recently coupled our 3.5L EcoBoost engine 
with hybrid technology in the PowerBoost™ Full Hybrid 
F150, offering significant fuel savings along with 

enhanced capability, such as providing exportable power. 
Additionally, we’ve incorporated advanced full and plug-
in hybrid systems in multiple vehicles globally, including 
our new Maverick hybrid truck, achieving EPA-estimated 
42 miles per gallon in the city  for under $20,000 in the 
U.S. In Europe, the Kuga is number 1 in its segment for all 
plug-in hybrid electric vehicles (PHEVs). 

*

*2.5L Hybrid powertrain. Actual mileage will vary. 

Diesel Engines 
Modern diesel engines offer reduced CO2 emissions and 
fuel consumption, especially in commercial applications 
requiring heavy load and towing capability. Thanks to 
advanced diesel engine technology, they can achieve 
20–30% better fuel economy than comparable gasoline 
engines in specific markets and segments, such as light 

87  |  

 
 
 
 
 
 
Contents

Ford 
Fundamentals 

Our Sustainability 
Strategy 

Driving Innovation and  
Sustainable Growth 

Putting  
People First 

Protecting the 
Environment 

Creating Responsible 
and Ethical Growth 

Climate Change – continued

commercial vehicles and heavy-duty vehicles. We 
continue to optimize these benefits in our EcoBlue and 
Powerstroke offerings. 

In Europe, the 2.0-liter Ford EcoBlue diesel combines the 
refinement and performance traditionally associated with 
Ford diesel, with emission control solutions capable of 
addressing the challenge of Real Driving Emissions (RDE). 
The Kuga, Transit, and Transit Custom offer a mild hybrid 
version of the 2.0-liter EcoBlue, completing the lineup of 
efficient powertrains and adding an electrified option, 
with further improved fuel economy and Auto Start/Stop. 

Advanced Transmissions and Drivelines 
We continue to optimize our transmissions by upgrading 
electronic controls to improve fuel economy and 
emissions. We have introduced a 7-speed automatic 
transmission for Ford Fiesta and Puma (including mild-
hybrid variants), while most Ford vehicles will continue 
to use the 8-speed automatic transmissions for front-
wheel-drive vehicles, and a 10-speed automatics for 
rear-wheel-drive vehicles. Our transmission team is 
now shifting focus to develop innovative technology 
for electrified vehicles. 

Alternative Fuels and Powertrains 
Alternative fuel vehicles enable our customers to reduce 
their CO2 footprint during the transition to electrification. 
Depending on infrastructure, technology development, 
policy, and customer acceptance, our path toward a 
long-term carbon-neutral portfolio will be powered 
by some combination of electricity, hydrogen, and 
hydrocarbon fuels from sustainable sources. Examples 
of hydrocarbon fuels are sustainable biofuels and fuels 
synthesized from electricity, water, and carbon. Synthetic 
fuels made from electricity are often called “e-fuels.” 
We anticipate that different regions will adopt different 
solutions and different mixes of electricity, hydrogen, 
and hydrocarbon fuels. 

Alternative fuel vehicles can reduce GHGs on a well-to-
wheels basis, which includes emissions from both 
producing and consuming the fuels. Compared to 
conventional gasoline (E10) vehicles, GHG emissions are 
about 15 % lower for diesel and compressed natural gas 
(CNG) vehicles, 25% lower for B20 (20% biodiesel blend) 
and 30% lower for E85 (85% ethanol from corn). Even 
more reduction is possible with FCVs (50% lower GHGs 
using hydrogen from steam methane reforming) and 
EVs (60% lower when charged with U.S. average grid 
electricity). When hydrogen and electricity are produced 
using carbon-free energy, the in-use GHG reduction is up 
to 100% on a well-to-wheels basis. 

We offer our customers many vehicles that are capable 
of using these reduced-GHG fuels. All our diesel vehicles 
are compatible with low-level biodiesel blends (B20 in 
U.S., B7 in Europe). Also in Europe, our Transit, Transit
Custom, Transit Courier, Transit Connect, and Ranger
are compatible with paraffinic diesel (EN 15940) such
as HVO/E-diesel. Paraffinic diesel can be blended with
standard fossil diesel fuel resulting in up to 33%
renewable content.

In motorsports, the M-Sport Ford World Rally Team 
is combining both alternative fuels and electrification. 
All FIA WRC Rally competitors will use a fossil-free fuel 
in the 2022 season, blending synthetic e-fuel and biofuel 
elements to produce a fuel that is 100% sustainable. 
The new M-Sport Ford Puma Hybrid Rally is Ford’s first 
electrified competition car. 

Reducing Emissions in Our Operations 
Improved energy efficiency and conservation in our 
facilities and manufacturing processes have resulted 
in a 35% reduction in our GHG footprint since 2017. 
Using energy more efficiently, procuring power from 
carbon-free sources, reducing GHG emissions from 
our operations, and making our transportation and 

88  |  

Vehicles Powered by Alternative Fuels 

Fuel

Benefits

Models

Renewable Biofuel Vehicles

CNG and LPG Vehicles

Compressed natural 
gas (CNG) 

Liquefied petroleum 
gas (LPG) 

DME under investigation 

Ethanol, made from fermented corn sugars or sugar 
cane, is usually blended with gasoline (e.g., E10, E15, 
E22 or E85); ethanol from non-food feedstocks is 
technically feasible 

Renewable diesel and biodiesel can be made from 
soy, canola, rapeseed, corn or palm oil, or animal fats, 
and mixed with fossil diesel 

Biodiesel via transesterification (FAME) typically has 
lower blends (B5,B7, B20) 

Paraffinic renewable diesel produced via hydrotreating 
(HVO) or the Fischer-Tropsch process can be blended 
at higher concentrations (R33 up to R100) 

Biofuels made from renewable resources may reduce 
CO2 emissions 

Next-generation biofuels made from plant 
cellulose use stems and leaves, reducing competition 
for food crops 

Lower well-to-wheels CO2 
emissions than gasoline 
or diesel vehicles 

Lower non-CO2 emissions 

Hydrogen Fuel Cell 
Vehicles (FCVs) 

Hydrogen made from 
natural gas or electrolysis 
of water 

Hydrogen fuel cell system 
converts stored hydrogen 
to electricity 

Zero-emission electric 
vehicles (tailpipe) with 
only water and low-
temperature heat as 
by-products 
Upstream hydrogen 
production emissions 
become zero with a 
renewable electric grid 

E85 FFV (U.S.): F-150, F-250, F-350, F-450 Super Duty, 
Police Interceptor Utility, Transit, Transit Connect, 
Transit Cutaway/Chassis Cab, E-350, E-450 Cutaway 
and Stripped Chassis 

E85 FFV (Europe/in France and Sweden only): Kuga, 
Fiesta, Puma, Focus, Transit Connect 

B20 (U.S.): F-250, F-350, F-450, F-550, F-600, F-600, 
Super Duty Pickups and Chassis Cabs; F-650 and F-750 
Medium Duty Chassis Cab 

R33 (Europe EN 590): All diesel models are compatible 

R100 (Europe EN 15940): Transit, Transit Custom, Transit 
Courier, Transit Connect, Ranger 

Wide range of U.S. 
commercial vehicles with 
CNG/Propane prep kits: 
F-250, F-350, F-450, 
F-550, F-600, F-650, 
F-750, Transit Connect, 
E-Series Cutaway, F-59, 
F-53 RV Stripped Chassis 
Fiesta LPG in Spain 

Contents

Ford 
Fundamentals 

Our Sustainability 
Strategy 

Driving Innovation and  
Sustainable Growth 

Putting  
People First 

Protecting the 
Environment 

Creating Responsible 
and Ethical Growth 

Climate Change – continued

logistics more sustainable and efficient all play a role 
in reaching our carbon neutrality goal. We are also 
mindful of opportunities to have a positive impact 
in the local community and surrounding ecosystem. 
This work is guided by our global manufacturing carbon 
reduction strategy. 

Our energy-efficiency and conservation efforts over the 
past decade have focused on improvements to lighting, 
compressed air, rotating equipment (fans, pumps and 
motors), and heating systems. We’ve also improved 
processes and consolidated and/or closed plants to 
improve utilization of operations. The net effect of 
these efforts is a 35% absolute reduction in our global 
manufacturing GHG footprint since 2017. In fact, we 
achieved our previous manufacturing GHG emissions 
target in 2017, eight years early, through initiatives such as 
installing LED lights and updating our painting operations. 

Our present manufacturing target is an 18% absolute 
reduction in GHG by 2023. To achieve this, we are focused 
on securing a renewable and reliable energy supply for 
our manufacturing plants, making these facilities even 
more efficient, and leveraging data to drive decisions. 

We report our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions, participate 
in emissions trading schemes such as the EU European 
Trading Scheme (EU ETS) and adhere to a number of 
carbon reduction initiatives in the United States, Europe, 
Mexico, Canada, and other countries. 

Looking to the future, we are focused on driving energy 
efficiency throughout the manufacturing processes. 
We’re incorporating energy-efficient best practices as 
we build new offices. Our Research and Engineering and 
Corktown campuses will achieve an Energy Utilization 
Intensity that is 50% better than historical Ford office 
spaces. And in Dearborn, the new Research and 
Engineering Center under construction is designed to 
be carbon neutral when it is occupied in 2025. These and 
other efforts make progress toward achieving our 2035 

SBTi target of 76% GHG reduction in combined 
manufacturing and non-manufacturing locations. 

We’ll be measuring our progress. Sustainability linked 
performance metrics align our financing actions with 
our commitment to operate a safe, sustainable and 
successful business – elements that are fundamental 
to the Ford+ Plan for growth and value creation. 







Read more about our Sustainable Financing Framework on p.27 

Meeting Customer Preferences 
Our global fuels migration path and our technology 
migration plan are based on delivering high-quality 
vehicles that consumers desire while responding to 
the risks associated with climate change. 

Given the urgency of the climate crisis, we are focusing 
on electrification, prioritizing all-electric versions of our 
most iconic models, the Mustang Mach-E, the Ford-150 
Lightning, and the E-Transit commercial van. Our strategy 
is to make the electric vehicles the most capable vehicles 
we have embracing a clean-sheet approach to designing, 
launching and scaling breakthrough, high-volume electric 
and connected products and services for retail, 
commercial, and shared mobility. 

Electrification of these nameplates is delighting existing 
customers and bringing new customers to Ford. 70% of 
our Mustang Mach-E customers are new to Ford. More 
than 75% of F-150 Lightning reservation holders are new 
to the Ford brand.8 

However, we understand that not all of our customers are 
ready to make the switch to EVs. So we’re offering a full 
range of efficient engine types with plug-in hybrids and 
“traditional” hybrids filling the spectrum from internal 
combustion engines to the all-electric Mustang Mach-E. 
Providing our customers with efficient, low-carbon 
alternatives during the transition to carbon neutrality 
is critical as we research and develop alternative 
powertrains and fuel options for our vehicles. 

Modernizing
Manufacturing
in Thailand
We are modernizing our Thailand manufacturing 
operations with a $900 million (THB 28 billion) 
investment in new technologies and systems, 
the company’s largest-ever single investment 
in Thailand. Part of the Ford+ Plan for growth 
and value creation, the investment supports 
production of the next-gen Ranger pickup truck 
and Everest SUV. 

Ford Thailand Manufacturing and AutoAlliance 
Thailand are making significant efforts to 
support environmentally friendly initiatives, 
including using renewable energy, reducing CO2 
emissions, and practicing zero waste to landfill. 

The overall investment brings Ford’s 
manufacturing facilities in Thailand in line 
with the latest global efficiency, flexibility, and 
quality processes, through extensive upgrades 
and new state-of-the-art manufacturing 
technologies and accompanying training for 
Ford employees and suppliers.





Creating a Sustainable
Manufacturing Ecosystem
– BlueOval City
The creation of our new BlueOval City plant 
in Tennessee is crucial to our long-term 
vision to lead America’s transition to electric 
vehicles and introduce more sustainable, 
carbon-neutral manufacturing. BlueOval 
City is designed to achieve carbon neutrality, 
send zero waste to landfill, and use freshwater 
only for human consumption once fully 
operational. The $7 billion investment supports 
our goal of creating a sustainable American 
manufacturing ecosystem as it creates jobs 
for the local communities and builds on 
Ford’s position as America’s leading employer 
of hourly autoworkers. 

89  |  

 
 
Contents

Ford 
Fundamentals 

Our Sustainability 
Strategy 

Driving Innovation and  
Sustainable Growth 

Putting  
People First 

Protecting the 
Environment 

Creating Responsible 
and Ethical Growth 

Climate Change – continued

On the commercial side, our goal is to provide our 
customers with greater value and higher productivity 
through the industry’s most comprehensive and flexible 
range of electric and internal combustion commercial 
vehicles. With Ford Pro, we’re incorporating digital and 
physical services that can help optimize and maintain 
customer fleets and offering public, depot, and employee 
home charging of EVs for the next day’s work. 

We will continue to improve fuel economy and reduce CO2 
emissions across our global vehicle portfolio to minimize 
the environmental impact associated with their use, while 
rapidly increasing the sales rate of our electrified vehicles. 

Climate Change Reporting 
We are committed to transparently reporting our climate 
change strategies and their resilience. We have received 
the 2020 CDP ratings and received A ratings for both 
Water and Climate (our 3rd year in a row as “A” for climate 
and 7th for water) and have issued climate change 
scenario reports since 2019. This year we have produced 
a consolidated report that combines our Climate Change 
Scenario Report and the Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Index. The report outlines 
our strategies, World Energy Outlook 2021 Scenarios, the 
resiliency of our strategies to those scenarios, and how 
we will monitor and review the impacts of climate change 
on our strategies. 

à

Read more in our TCFD Report 

Read more in Electrification and Connectivity section on p.45

90  |  

Contents

Ford 
Fundamentals 

Our Sustainability 
Strategy 

Driving Innovation and  
Sustainable Growth 

Putting  
People First 

Protecting the 
Environment 

Creating Responsible 
and Ethical Growth 

Carbon-Free Electricity 
and Energy Future 

Energy: Use 100 percent carbon-free 
electricity in all manufacturing by 2035 

Our goal of achieving 100 percent carbon-
free electricity in all manufacturing by 2035 
will be bolstered by the potential dedicated 
investments in wind, solar, geothermal, 
hydropower, and biomass. 

We are committed to reducing the effects of our 
operations and supply chains. In addition to developing 
world-class facilities, sourcing 100 percent carbon-free 
electricity for our global operations by 2035 is a key 
strategy to help us achieve this goal. 

Securing Carbon-Free Electricity 
To replace fossil-based generation, we’ll be procuring a 
mix of wind, solar power, nuclear, geothermal, biomass, 
energy storage, and hydro. One strategy is to secure 
carbon-free electricity through relationships with local 
utilities, power producers, and independent project 
developers. And we’re already making progress. 

All manufacturing facilities in Ohio, New York, and Mexico 
will be sourced with 100% carbon-free electricity by 
2022 year end. All manufacturing and large commercial 
facilities in Michigan are expected to be sourced with 
100% carbon-free electricity by 2025. Not only does 
this reduce our emissions, but it also improves the local 
environment and adds resiliency to the local grid. 

Rooftop Solar Array 
Also in Michigan, DTE Energy, the state’s largest producer 
of renewable energy has commissioned a new rooftop 
solar array at a parking garage at Ford Research & 
Engineering Center in Dearborn, Michigan. The 2,159- 
panel array includes an integrated battery storage system 
and will be used to power newly installed electric vehicle 
(EV) chargers. The solar array can generate 1.127 million 
kWh of clean energy, avoiding 880 tons of CO2, which 
has the environmental benefit equal to the carbon 
sequestered by nearly 980 acres of U.S. forests in 
one year. 

Sustainability-linked performance metrics include 
increasing the percentage of renewable electricity 
consumed in Ford’s global manufacturing plants. 

The new solar array is just one of several steps both 
companies are taking to reduce carbon emissions. 
In 2019, Ford became the first corporate customer to 

91  |  

Silverton Plant, South Africa 
New advanced technologies and systems are being 
developed at the Ford Silverton Assembly Plant in 
Pretoria, to support expanded production of the all-new 
Ranger pickup truck, starting in 2022. Silverton is moving 
towards energy self-sufficiency and carbon neutrality, 
while increasing annual installed capacity to 200,000 
vehicles for domestic sales and export to 100+ global 
markets. The first phase of Project BlueOval already 
is underway with the construction of solar carports for 
4,200 vehicles at the Silverton Plant. 

Pacheco Plant, Argentina 
Our Pacheco plant in Argentina is making strides on 
environmental responsibility on a variety of fronts. In 
2021, it achieved more than 40% of renewable electrical 
energy consumption and recycled 93% of total waste 
generated as of November 2021. It is reducing kWh usage 
in compressed air generation from 36% to 25% and 
completing energy meter installation in all manufacturing 
facilities. Lastly, it is creating a native forest comprised of 
120 local species to capture carbon emissions. 

Read more about our Sustainable Financing Framework on p.27

enroll in DTE’s MIGreenPower voluntary renewable 
energy program. Through the program, Ford is purchasing 
525,000 megawatt hours annually of Michigan wind 
energy from DTE’s Isabella and Fairbanks wind parks. 

Modernizing Plants for Energy Efficiency 
We’re modernizing plants in South Africa and Thailand 
with an eye towards energy efficiency. We’re also ensuring 
our new plants are energy efficient. Ford has been in talks 
with utilities to procure carbon-free energy and hopes to 
harness geothermal energy to provide both heating and 
cooling for the facilities. 

In Europe, Ford is already using 100 percent carbon-free 
electricity to power: Dunton and Daventry in the U.K., 
the Craiova plant in Romania, and all facilities in Cologne, 
Germany including the vehicle assembly and engine 
plants, as well as the Research Center in Merkenich. 
We expect that Europe will be among the first global 
regions to become carbon neutral. 

Jiangling and Changan Ford Hangzhou Plants, China 
Ford Joint Venture Jiangling Automobile production 
plant is currently planning the installation and use of 
solar panels. The planned 300,000 solar photovoltaic 
panels are expected to generate 60 million kWh of solar 
power and reduce carbon emissions by more than 
50,000 tons annually. 

The Jiangling Plant will join the Changan Ford 
Hangzhou Plant, which completed the installation 
of solar photovoltaic panels in 2019. In 2020, the 
Hangzhou Branch’s annual solar power supply reached 
13 million kWh, accounting for 25% of the total power 
consumption of the plant and reducing nearly 10,000 tons 
of carbon emissions. 

Contents

Ford 
Fundamentals 

Our Sustainability 
Strategy 

Driving Innovation and  
Sustainable Growth 

Putting  
People First 

Protecting the 
Environment 

Creating Responsible 
and Ethical Growth 

Air Quality 

Air: Attain zero emissions from our  
vehicles and facilities 

We believe that everyone is entitled to 
breathe clean air. Reducing air pollution 
is vital to protecting people and the 
environment — and our efforts to avoid 
the worst impacts of climate change. 

Read more about this Salient Human Rights issue in our 

Human Rights Report 

Through our research and vehicle development, we are 
working to reduce emissions of hydrocarbons, carbon 
monoxide, nitrogen oxides, and particulate matter that 
pollute the air, in accordance with increasingly stringent 
standards around the world. 

Standards Continue to Tighten 
Internal combustion engine vehicles (ICEVs) emit 
hydrocarbons, carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides, and 
particulate matter. These pollutants can affect air quality, 
particularly in urban areas, and potentially impact 
human health. 

Ford is proud to comply with all global criteria emission 
standards as they are introduced. The enforcement of 
such standards has led to lower vehicle emissions and, 
along with actions in sectors beyond transportation 
(residential, commercial, and industrial), have led to 
major improvements in air quality in many cities in recent 
decades. In communities where air pollution and climate 
change are disproportionate burdens today, access to 
electric vehicles can help provide health, economic, and 

92  |  

Regional Emissions Standards 

United States

Europe

China

Other Regions 

Already 
Compliant or 
Surpassing 

• Environmental 

Protection Agency 
(EPA) Tier 2 regulations 

• Euro 6d Real Driving 
Emissions (RDE) 
standards 

• California’s Low 

Emission Vehicle II 
(LEV II) program 

• National stage-6a 

(China-6a) LDV and HDV 
emissions standards 
nationwide 

• National stage-6b 

(China-6b) LDV emission 
standards in five cities 
and provinces 

Becoming 
Compliant as 
Phased In 

• EPA Tier 3 standards 
• California’s LEV III 
standards, closely 
aligned with the EPA’s 
Tier 3 program 

• National stage-6b 

(China-6b) LDV and HDV 
emissions standards 
nationwide (July 2023) 

• India: Bharat Stage VI 
• Brazil and Argentina: 

PROCONVE L-6 and standards 
based on Euro 5 

• Middle East: Standards based
on Euro 2, Euro 3, Euro 4 and 
Euro 5 

• S. Korea Gasoline vehicle: 

California LEV III 

• S. Korea Diesel Vehicle: Euro 

6d RDE 

• Thailand, Philippines: Euro 4 
• Vietnam: Euro 5 
• Cambodia: Euro 4 
• Australia: Euro 5 

• Brazil: PROCONVE L7 and L8 
• Chile: Euro 6b or U.S. Tier 3 Bin 
125, Euro 6c or U.S. Tier 3 BIN 70 

• Peru: Euro 6b, Tier 3 Bin 125 
• Colombia: Standards based on 

Euro 6 (diesel) 

• Uruguay: Euro 5 
• Middle East: standards based
from Euro 2 through to Euro 6 

• Indonesia: Euro 4 Diesel 
• Malaysia: Euro 4 Diesel 
• Singapore: Euro 6d 
• Thailand: Euro 5 
• Cambodia: Euro 5 
• Australia: Euro 6d

mobility benefits. Ford’s electrification strategy not only 
reduces GHG emissions, but also improves local air quality. 

Several countries and states are announcing plans to ban 
ICEVs or implement 100% zero-emission vehicle (ZEV) 
sales targets to further improve air quality. 

Our Progress in China 
All Ford manufacturing facilities in China have taken 
various measures to significantly reduce emissions. 
From 2020 to 2021, plants reduced VOC emissions by 
19% (3.7g/m2), equivalent to an annual reduction of 
more than 250 metric tons of VOC emissions through 
various management and engineering investment 
measures, contributing to cleaner air. 

 
 
Contents

Ford 
Fundamentals 

Our Sustainability 
Strategy 

Driving Innovation and  
Sustainable Growth 

Putting  
People First 

Protecting the 
Environment 

Creating Responsible 
and Ethical Growth 

Water Use and 
Stewardship 

Water: Make zero water withdrawals  
for manufacturing processes 
Use freshwater only for human consumption 

Water Use at Our Facilities
Freshwater
Tap Water
Lake Water
River Water
Groundwater
Rainwater
Alternative Water
Wastewater
(from an offsite location)
Salt Water
(oceans and seas)

Water is fundamental to human existence – 
and vital to so many aspects of our 
operations. We have a responsibility to 
use and manage water sources efficiently 
and sustainably. 

Read more about this Salient Human Rights issue in our 

Human Rights Report 

Our Water Strategy 
Our long-term approach reflects the need to understand 
water challenges in their local context, with extraction 
policies and practices designed to make sure our operations 
do not adversely affect other users’ access to water. 

Our 2025 Global Manufacturing Water Strategy, the third 
iteration of our water strategy, aims to continue Ford’s 
position as a leader in water reduction in manufacturing 
processes and secure optimal freshwater availability in 
local communities. It targets a 15% reduction in absolute 
freshwater usage. Ford has already reduced its annual 
freshwater consumption by over 78% since 2000; that’s 
over 12.5 billion gallons of water saved compared to 2000 
usage. Our global water conservation actions are equal 
to providing a year’s worth of water to 1.4 million homes. 

We will continue to work towards our existing aspirational 
goals of freshwater for human consumption only and zero 

93  |  

water withdrawals for manufacturing. This includes 
establishing local ecosystem performance goals and 
improving water discharge quality, with a focus on direct 
discharge plants. We are examining how water cycling 
impacts communities and how to better emulate the 
natural system. 

Our new plant in Tennessee aspires to make zero 
freshwater withdrawals for assembly processes by 
incorporating water reuse and recycling systems. 
Stakeholders responded positively to our goal of 
preserving water and striving for full water recycling. 

What Is Freshwater? 
Freshwater, the main source of drinking water around 
the world, is recognized as essential for human life and 
wellbeing in Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standard 
303. The GRI defines freshwater as surface water, but
our definition is broader, including both surface water
and groundwater.

We are applying freshwater reduction methods as 
well as improving our water quality discharges at our 
sites that mimic the behavior and performance of the 
local ecosystem. 

We have made progress toward our aspiration of using 
freshwater only for human consumption in our facilities 
that are in water-scarce regions, such as Mexico, China, 
and South Africa. In 2021, our use of alternative water 
exceeded 7% in these regions. Additionally Chennai 
Engine and Assembly have joined our Chihuahua Engine 
facility in achieving this goal by using zero freshwater 
for its manufacturing processes.

Contents

Ford 
Fundamentals 

Our Sustainability 
Strategy 

Driving Innovation and  
Sustainable Growth 

Putting  
People First 

Protecting the 
Environment 

Creating Responsible 
and Ethical Growth 

Water Use and Stewardship – continued

Reducing Operational Water Use 
Water use and recycling are occurring at Ford plants 
around the world. We continue to integrate more water-
efficient processes and technologies as we work to 
further decrease our water consumption. 

Absolute water was down nearly 9% from the year  
prior and down 27% from the 2019 strategy baseline – 
an almost 78% reduction from the initial 2000  
water strategy.* 

*Data updated May 23, 2022.

Water Strategy Progression 

However, these reductions were largely attributed to 
vehicle manufacturing down time associated with the 
global microchip shortage. 

Our South Africa Silverton Plant has the aspirational 
goal of being net zero and carbon neutral as well as full 
water recycling. 

Our CDP A List achievements 

Ford earned a place on the CDP 
“A List” for protecting water security 
again in 2021. We have received an 
A score rating from CDP for water 
reduction for seven years in a row and 
are one of only 119 companies globally 
to earn such an award for water security. We were also 
on CDP’s Climate Change “A list” for the third straight 
year. We are one of the two North American OEM to 
obtain double A List status. 

Efficiencies

Recycling/ 
Water Reuse 

Alternative 
Water Source 

Freshwater for 
Domestic Use Only 

Reduction in 
Alternative 
Water Source 

Elimination of Water
 for Manufacturing 
Processes 

Clean Water for All 
(Positive Impact) 

Version 1 

V1

Efficiency (external metric) 
Recycle/Reuse (track) 

Version 2 





Ford India’s Drive for Zero
Water Consumption
At Ford’s Chennai Vehicle Assembly and Engine 
Plant, freshwater consumption is down to an 
incredible 1.17 m3 per vehicle – from 7.3 m3 per 
vehicle only a decade ago. Having identified an 
alternate source of water to treat, for use in non- 
production activities, the smart water efficiency 
processes are used to recycle almost 100% of 
industrial wastewater for use in manufacturing. 

Ford’s Sanand Vehicle Assembly & Engine 
Plant in Gujarat has zero water discharge, 
with a 110,000 m3 rain water harvesting pond 
used for pallet washing, irrigation, and in the 
cooling towers. 

Ford’s Global Business Technology & Business 
Center in Chennai (GTBC) can also claim zero 
discharge, thanks to its 100% reuse of treated 
wastewater for dual plumbing, horticulture, 
and cooling tower chiller. Ford GTBC – opened 
in 2019 – earned its Platinum green building 
rating at launch; the highest possible certification 
for sustainable buildings. The globally recognized 
certificate not only factors in water conservation 
but also sustainable design, architecture, and 
building material resources; energy conservation 
including use of renewable energy resources; 
indoor environment quality; and innovation 
and development.

Metric: Incoming water (per unit) 
Tracked: Recycle/reuse (absolute) 

V1

V2

Efficiency (external metric) 
Recycle/Reuse (track) 

Version 3 

Alternative Water Source (metric) 
Aspirational goals: 
– Freshwater for Domestic use
– Zero water for Manufacturing

V1

V2

= Aspirational Goal 

Metric: Incoming water (per unit) 
Tracked: Recycle/reuse (absolute)  

   % Freshwater 

94  |  

Efficiency (external metric) 
Recycle/Reuse (track) 

Alternative Water Source (metric) 
Aspirational goals: 
– Freshwater for Domestic use
– Zero water for Manufacturing

Metric: Incoming Freshwater (absolute) 
Tracked: Recycle/reuse (absolutes)  

% Freshwater (water stressed) 
Ecosystem Performance

– Water Discharge Quality 

V3

– Ecosystem Performance

– Water Discharge Quality

 
Contents

Ford 
Fundamentals 

Our Sustainability 
Strategy 

Driving Innovation and  
Sustainable Growth 

Putting  
People First 

Protecting the 
Environment 

Creating Responsible 
and Ethical Growth 

Waste Management 

Waste: Reach true zero waste to landfill  
across our operations 

Eliminate single-use plastics from 
our operations by 2030 

Reducing Waste 

Reducing waste reduces our impact on 
the planet – and optimizes efficiency in 
our resource-intensive industry. We reuse 
or recycle any waste we do generate 
wherever possible, avoiding the landfill 
and providing us with an additional supply 
of valuable resources. 

Meeting Our Waste Targets 
The focus of our global waste strategy is to manage 
and minimize the waste we generate. We strive to reduce 
costs and keep waste out of landfill. Our waste targets 
remained largely unchanged despite COVID-19. We made 
some operational adjustments based on impacts at site 
level but our initial glide path remains constant. 

In 2021, Ford facilities around the world sent approximately 
16,300 metric tons of waste to landfill, 7% less than 
in 2020. 

Over five years from a 2017 baseline, we are targeting a 
35% reduction in waste sent to landfill, a 15% reduction 
in waste generation, and a 25% reduction in general 
trash. We are developing a strategy to achieve our 
aspiration of eliminating single-use plastics from 
our global operations by 2030. 

Going for Zero 
In addition to our focus on reducing waste to landfill at 
our facilities, we are focused on minimizing the amount 
of waste we generate. Beginning in the third quarter of 
2021, all Ford manufacturing plants in China achieved 
zero waste to landfill (ZWTL). Waste generated in all 
factories will either be managed for thermal destruction 
with or without energy recovery or recycled instead of 
being sent to landfills for final disposal. All of our 
European facilities have acquired ZWTL status, which 
means they send absolutely no waste to landfill. 
Globally Ford has 89 ZWTL manufacturing and non-
manufacturing sites and 74% of global manufacturing 
sites are true ZWTL. 

To ensure that more of our facilities reach ZWTL 
status, we continue to implement a range of waste 
reduction initiatives. 

These include: 

• Implementing new technologies and programs that

minimize waste

• Standardizing the tracking and sorting of waste to

increase recycling and reuse

• Focusing on the five main sources of waste to landfill

at each facility

• Working with suppliers to increase the use of eco-

friendly packaging

Reducing the Impact of Packaging 
Packaging is crucial for protecting components on their 
journey to our facilities. Using standardized containers 
and materials helps to optimize payloads and lower 
costs. In many locations, we have agreements with 
packaging providers so that containers are collected, 
stored, and forwarded to other suppliers. 

95  |  

Before we launch a new vehicle, we work with suppliers 
to review how components and production parts will be 
packaged. Our packaging guidelines for North America 
and Asia Pacific require our suppliers’ packaging to have 
at least a neutral, if not positive, environmental footprint, 
achieved through the use of 100% recycled, renewable 
or recyclable materials. 

Reducing End-of-Life Impacts 
We proactively review non-dimensional materials such 
as lubricants and paints within our manufacturing 
operations. Going beyond applicable regulations, we 
are developing a timeline to further reduce substances 
of concern in our facilities, including those that are 
carcinogenic or environmentally persistent. 



Read more in our GRI Index in our ESG Data Book 

35%

reduction in waste sent 
to landfill target by 2030 





Packaging that Avoids 
the Landfill 
Packaging for assembly line components used 
to end up in landfills. Not any more. The team 
at the Dagenham Engine Plant in the U.K. have 
been honored for creating the FrameTray 
system (FTS), injection-molded trays and lids 
that can be endlessly recycled. The FTS is 
saving millions of dollars and offers a 50% 
increase in packing density. It’s a cost-effective 
innovation that’s now positively helping other 
parts of the supply chain – as well as the planet.

 
Contents

Ford 
Fundamentals 

Our Sustainability 
Strategy 

Driving Innovation and  
Sustainable Growth 

Putting  
People First 

Protecting the 
Environment 

Creating Responsible 
and Ethical Growth 

Sustainable Materials 

Materials: Utilize only recycled or renewable  
content in vehicle plastics 

Our commitment to using sustainable 
materials is part of our history, our present – 
and our future. 

Automobiles are among the world’s most recycled 
consumer products. Although many products could be 
100% recycled, few are. Over 85%15 of vehicle parts and 
materials are actually recycled and reused at their end of 
life with the vehicle’s metallic portion being highly recycled. 
Rather than focusing on end of life metal recycling which 
is already a great success, we focus on using recycled and 
renewable content in plastics and closed loop recycling. 

By using recycled and renewable materials in our vehicles’ 
design, we’re reducing landfill waste and using fewer 
natural resources. 

Plastic in Vehicles 
As the amount of plastic usage in vehicles has grown, 
we have focused on increasing the sustainability of 
plastics in our vehicles’ design with the goal of using 20% 
recycled and renewable plastics in new vehicle designs 
for North America and Europe by 2025 and 10% for China 
and Turkey. Our aspiration is to utilize only recycled or 
renewable content in vehicle plastics. 

Much of recycled and renewable content comes from 
waste products generated by other industries. We use 
the ISO 14021 standard in accounting for this content, 
and track our progress using the highest volume variant 
of our nameplates. 

Using Recycled Materials for Vehicle Parts 
Recycling plastics keeps waste out of landfills and 
decreases the consumption of natural resources and 
energy. We transform recycled plastic bottles into 
carpeting, underbody shields, and wheel liners and use 
post-consumer nylon and polypropylene carpeting for 
cylinder head covers, fans and shrouds, cam covers, 
and carbon canisters. 

Teams in the EU are working on our recycled content 
strategy as well as starting research projects like the 
Green Factory of Tomorrow, where we are improving 
operational efficiency and better management of natural 
resources and waste in our manufacturing process. 

Using Renewable Materials for Vehicle Parts 
Renewable, plant-based materials also play a role in our 
sustainability strategy. Ford currently has launched a 
dozen industry-first, plant-based materials in production 
vehicles since 2007, establishing a reputation as a leader 
in this space. These robust materials are often lighter in 
weight, improving fuel economy. They also sequester 
carbon during the plants growing phase, reducing global 
warming impacts, and they require less energy to 
manufacture. Ford first sustainable materials include 
soy foam, wheat straw, rice hulls, tree-based cellulose, 
coconut fiber, and coffee chaff. 

For example, soy seat cushions, backs and headrests have 
been used on every Ford North American built vehicle 
(over 18.5 million vehicles) for more than a decade. Bio-
based foams on Ford vehicles have collectively reduced 
GHG emissions by over 240 million pounds using over 
730 billion soybeans, which also produces extra revenue 
for U.S. farmers. Soy foam reduces petroleum dependence 
by over 5 million pounds annually. 

Ford was also the first in the industry to launch wheat 
straw storage bins, rice hull filled electrical wiring covers, 
and tree-based cellulose composite armrest substrates 
and console substrates. 

Through a partnership with McDonald’s USA we have 
incorporated coffee chaff — the dried skin of the coffee 
bean – to reinforce headlamp housings. 

Our Sustainable and Emerging Materials group continues 
to pioneer the development of new sustainable plastic 
materials including algae fiber reinforced plastics and 
polymer resins made from renewable feed stocks. 

We’re testing whether the tree-based cellulose 
composites, that were incorporated into Lincoln 
Continental consoles, can be used in other applications. 

Our partnership with McDonald’s and our use of ocean 
plastics in the Bronco Sport exemplify our approach 
to the circular economy – deriving value from waste 
material, or “upcycling.” Our goal is to migrate these 
sustainable materials to other vehicles and applications. 

Closing the Loop in Recycling 
Ford’s approach to the circular economy is not limited 
to just parts inside the vehicle. Ford is the largest 
automotive closed-loop aluminum recycler in the world. 
We worked closely with our aluminum sheet suppliers 
to create unique alloys just for closed-loop recycling. 
Our closed-loop system recovers aluminum scrap during 
parts stamping but keeps the various aluminum alloys 
separated so they can be recycled back into fresh alloy 
for new vehicles, which saves 95% of the energy that 
would be required to create new aluminum from raw ore. 

This closed loop recycling system is used to build the 
F-Series, recovering up to 20 million pounds of high-
strength, military-grade, aluminum alloy per month. 
This is how Ford maximizes aluminum recycling in 
our plants and minimizes the need for primary metal. 





Bronco Sport Parts from
100% Ocean-Harvested
Plastic is an Industry First
We are adding to our legacy of using sustainable 
materials in vehicles by being the first automaker 
to use 100% recycled ocean plastics to produce 
automotive parts. 

Wiring harness clips in Ford Bronco Sport models 
are made of ocean-harvested plastic from 
discarded fishing nets. These nets are called 
“ghost gear” because of the number of marine 
animals that get trapped in them and the length 
of time they remain in the ocean wreaking havoc. 
The strength and durability of the nylon material 
equals that of previously used petroleum-based 
parts but at a cost saving, and requires less energy 
to produce. The ocean plastic is collected by 
workers in the Indian Ocean and Arabian Sea, 
promoting healthier marine life and providing jobs. 

“This is another example of Ford leading the 
charge on sustainability,” said Jim Buczkowski, 
vice president of research and Henry Ford 
technical fellow. “It is a strong example of circular 
economy, and while these clips are small, they 
are an important first step in our explorations to 
use recycled ocean plastics for additional parts 
in the future.”

96  |  

Always consult the Owner’s Manual before 
off-road driving, know your terrain and trail 
difficulty, and use appropriate safety gear.

 
 
 
Contents

Ford 
Fundamentals 

Our Sustainability 
Strategy 

Driving Innovation and  
Sustainable Growth 

Putting  
People First 

Protecting the 
Environment 

Creating Responsible 
and Ethical Growth 

Sustainable Materials – continued





HP Collaboration for
Circular Economy
Strategy
Ford is continuing to drive the future of 
automotive 3D printing, this time teaming up 
with HP to innovatively recycle spent 3D printer 
powders and parts turning them into injection-
molded vehicle parts – an industry first. 

The recycled materials are being used to 
manufacture injection-molded fuel-line clips 
installed first on Super Duty F-250 trucks. 
The injection molded parts are better for 
the environment with no compromise in the 
durability and quality standards Ford and its 
customers demand. 

They have better chemical and moisture 
resistance than conventional versions, are 
lighter and cost less. The Ford research team 
has identified other fuel-line clips that could 
benefit from this innovative use of material 
and are migrating it to future models. 

“Finding new ways to work with sustainable 
materials, reducing waste and leading the 
development of the circular economy are 
passions at Ford,” said Debbie Mielewski, 
Ford technical fellow, Sustainability. “Many 
companies are finding great uses for 3D 
printing technologies, but, together with HP, 
we’re the first to find a high-value application 
for waste powder that likely would have gone 
to landfill, transforming it into functional and 
durable auto parts.” 

97  |  

Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) Research 
Our LCA-based studies evaluate potential environmental 
implications of vehicle raw materials and manufacturing; 
for example, aluminum production and recycling, recycled 
polymers, cradle-to-gate impacts of lithium-ion batteries, 
environmental benefits of using second-life EV batteries, 
and additive manufacturing. 

Minimizing Substance of Concern 
We also work to minimize substances of concern in 
our products and facilities. We have developed a list 
of targeted chemicals compiled from international, 
authoritative sources and engage suppliers to reduce 
these substances through process efficiencies, product 
replacements, or reformulation. 

In the EU, we are preparing for expected regulations 
related to LCAs. 

Read more in our GRI Index in our ESG Data Book 

Our work with Redwood will, 
by design, help ensure the 
infrastructure is in place to 
cost-effectively recycle end-
of-life Ford batteries to create 
a robust domestic materials 
stream and drive down the 
cost of electric vehicles.” 

Lisa Drake, Vice President,  
EV Industrialization – Ford Model e 

Recycling Batteries with Redwood 
Batteries are at the heart of our electrification strategy. 
We are collaborating with Redwood Materials to integrate 
battery recycling into our domestic battery strategy. 
Redwood’s recycling technology can recover, on average, 
more than 95% of strategic materials such as nickel, 
cobalt, lithium, and copper. 

These materials can be recycled and remanufactured in a 
closed-loop where Redwood produces anode copper foil 
and cathode active materials for future battery production. 
Using domestically produced battery materials from as 
much recycled content as available, will help ensure 
valuable materials in products re-enter the supply chain, 
reducing our reliance on the existing commodities supply 
chain and overseas component manufacturing that will 
be quickly overwhelmed by industry demand. 

Longer-term, Ford and Redwood plan to work together on 
the best approach to collect and disassemble end-of-life 
batteries from Ford’s electric vehicles for recycling and 
remanufacturing to help reduce the cost associated with 
battery components and raw materials to manufacture 
all-new batteries. 

What is a typical vehicle 

Around 40,000 parts… 

using 1,000 materials… 

and 10,000 chemical substances… 

17% 

plastics,  
elastomers, textiles 
(area to improve) 

4%

other 

75% 

metals (already highly recycled) 

4% 

liquids (already 
recycled or reused)

 
Contents

Ford 
Fundamentals 

Our Sustainability 
Strategy 

Driving Innovation and  
Sustainable Growth 

Putting  
People First 

Protecting the 
Environment 

CCrreeaatitinngg R Reessppoonnssiibbllee  
aanndd E Eththiiccaall G Grorowwthth 

Building Value Together

Creating Responsible and Ethical Growth

98  |  

Contents

Ford 
Fundamentals 

Our Sustainability 
Strategy 

Driving Innovation and  
Sustainable Growth 

Putting  
People First 

Protecting the 
Environment 

Creating Responsible 
and Ethical Growth 

Overview 

With our capacity to adapt to change, our 
business can meet new challenges and 
goals, not only to create value for our 
stakeholders, but to do so ethically – to 
maintain our long-term viability and 
accountability as a trusted international 
business partner leading the next revolution 
in transportation under the Ford+ umbrella. 

Through our electrification, mobility, connectivity, and 
sustainability strategies, we are transitioning to a model 
that emphasizes services, relationships, renewable 
resources, and human and social capital. 

Creating value responsibly and ethically – building trust 
in all we do – spurs this transformation, helping us drive 
progress and make positive impacts to meet the 
collective challenges the world faces across a range 
of sustainability issues. 

In fact, we are actively working to build a better world, 
with fewer obstacles and limits, so that everyone has the 
opportunity to pursue their dreams. We know that trust 
earned with global stakeholders will be our most important 
asset in dealing with the critical issues covered in this 
report, including transparency and ethics, global data 
analytics, privacy and protection, government regulations 
and policy, and corporate governance and engagement. 

At Ford, we are proud of being 
a trusted company, known for 
acting with integrity. Last year, 
we modernized and simplified 
Ford’s Code of Conduct to build 
upon this trust and increase 
transparency around what it 
means to work at or with Ford. 
We’ve made understanding and 
demonstrating our values easier 
than ever before.” 

Beth Rose, 
Chief Compliance, Ethics and Integrity Officer 

99  |  

Contents

Ford 
Fundamentals 

Our Sustainability 
Strategy 

Driving Innovation and  
Sustainable Growth 

Putting  
People First 

Protecting the 
Environment 

Creating Responsible 
and Ethical Growth 

Ethical behavior begins with 
treating all members of our 
extended family of employees, 
suppliers and customers with 
fairness and respect.

Transparency, 
Ethics and Integrity 

Ethics and integrity are a big part of who we are as a company. 
We always keep ethics and compliance at the heart of our 
business practices, as we believe that trust in our brand is earned 
by acting with honesty, expertise, and care. 

That’s why we strive to provide clear policies, effective 
communication, and engaging training to make it easy 
for our people to do the right thing and comply with 
existing laws, regulations, and policies. 

These efforts indicate how important transparency is 
to Ford – a key part of our culture that starts at the top 
and permeates throughout the organization. 

Serving Others with Integrity and Competence 
A company known for integrity is an invaluable quality 
that takes years and decades to secure and reinforce. 
That’s why our Corporate Compliance, Ethics and 
Integrity Office provides training and communication 
tools to help our people comply with legal obligations 
and policies that maintain the highest levels of integrity. 

Upholding High Standards of Ethical Conduct and 
Communicating Openly 
In unpredictable times, especially during such challenges 
as a global pandemic and supply shortages, Ford strives to 
maintain open channels in communicating with all of our 
stakeholders, with no surprises. For example, Ford’s Chief 
Executive Officer Jim Farley uses his Twitter and LinkedIn 
accounts to disseminate information. And, we now report 
monthly on vehicle production, dealer inventory, and retail 
sales instead of the quarterly reporting done by others in 
the industry. This transparency has been helpful to our 
investors during the worldwide semiconductor shortage. 

Updating our Code of Conduct 
Employee Code of Conduct 
Ford is recognized around the world as a leader in corporate 
ethics and social responsibility, an accomplishment we are 
proud of and never take for granted. Ethical behavior begins 
with treating all members of our extended family of 
employees, suppliers, and customers with fairness and 
respect. It is more than compliance with the law. Our values 
support the cultivation of an environment that is physically 
and emotionally safe for all, where our differences are truly 
valued, and where everyone can bring their whole selves 
to work. 

The Code of Conduct helps Ford employees, suppliers, 
and customers around the world understand and 
embrace what we believe in and how we conduct our 
business, including our aspiration of becoming the world’s 
most trusted company. It covers areas related to human 
rights, the environment, and lawful business practices. 
It is publicly accessible and available in 12 languages. 

In 2021, we updated our Code of Conduct to make it more 
accessible – it’s now on our website and in interactive digital 
formats for the general public as well as employees; it’s 
easier to understand and follow – it went from summarizing 
our 69 policies to clearly demonstrating 17 commitments 
(policies), including Ford’s We Are Committed to Protecting 
Human Rights and the Environment policy. And it’s written 
in more simplified language to increase transparency about 
what it means to work at and do business with Ford. 

Read more in our Code of Conduct 

100  |  



Driving Innovation and  
Sustainable Growth

Putting  
People First

Protecting the 
Environment

CCrreeaatitinngg R Reessppoonnssiibbllee  
and Ethical Growth
and Ethical Growth

With hundreds of companies 
involved in building Ford 
vehicles, supplying everything 
from fasteners to software, 
our new supplier code of 
conduct applies not just to 
the company’s Tier 1 suppliers, 
but to their partners as well.

Transparency, Ethics and Integrity – continued

Supplier Code of Conduct
As we increasingly turn our attention not just to the 
emissions of the vehicles we build but also to the 
environmental and human rights impacts of making 
them, we have taken a big step by strengthening the 
code of conduct that we expect our suppliers to follow. 
With hundreds of companies involved in building Ford 
vehicles, supplying everything from fasteners to software, 
our new Supplier Code of Conduct applies not only to the 
company’s Tier 1 suppliers, but to their suppliers as well. 
It is available in eight languages, accessible to everyone. 

Our Supplier Code of Conduct mandates that our 
suppliers maintain responsible business practices: 

• Conducting business free from bribery and corruption
• Maintaining effective privacy and cyber-security practices
• Complying with applicable trade and customs rules.

Suppliers are also required to protect and respect 
human rights, protect the environment and responsibly 
source materials.

Read more in our Supplier Code of Conduct

Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption
Our many facilities around the world need to comply 
with a wide range of national laws and governmental 
enforcement practices with regard to bribery and 
corruption. We maintain the highest standards wherever 
we operate and do not allow bribery or corruption, even 
when it may be tolerated or condoned.

Compliance Training 
These expectations are reinforced in mandatory online 
training courses for all Ford salaried full-time, part-time 
and agency workers, including an annual Code of 
Conduct course. These courses are periodically refreshed 
and reviewed to ensure the content remains relevant 
and appropriate.

101  |  

Reporting Violations 
Our compliance program facilitates the confidential 
reporting of known or potential violations of the law or of 
our policies. Our people can report violations directly to 
Human Resources or the Compliance, Ethics and Integrity 
Office as well as the Office of the General Counsel or the 
General Auditors’ Office. Violations can also be reported 
using the SpeakUp reporting mechanism, telephone 
hotlines, websites, or email, some of which allow for 
anonymous reporting. External stakeholders may report 
by emailing SpeakUp@ford.com. 

Allegations are reviewed by a cross-functional 
committee, which oversees any investigations and 
subsequent corrective or disciplinary action.

Read more about our Grievance Mechanisms and Remedy 

in our Human Rights Report



Driving Innovation and  
Sustainable Growth

Putting  
People First

Protecting the 
Environment

CCrreeaatitinngg R Reessppoonnssiibbllee  
aanndd E Eththiiccaall G Grorowwthth

Data Protection,  
Privacy and Security

We take our responsibilities concerning data protection, privacy, and security 
seriously. The information that customers provide through connected systems 
helps us deliver great products, a personalized experience, continued 
innovation, and the opportunity to deploy new business models.

Our company wide governance infrastructure is driven 
by a holistic approach that includes policies focused on 
transparency, responsible data handling and use, and 
consent, where appropriate.

We also maintain an industry-leading cybersecurity 
insurance program with many of the world’s largest 
and most respected insurance companies. 

Data Privacy and Cybersecurity 
As we continue to develop and produce vehicles with 
increased connectivity, the scope and severity of risks 
presented by cyber threats to vehicle operating and 
security systems have increased dramatically, requiring 
constant vigilance to protect against intrusions and 
potential disruptions. We take cyber threats very seriously 
and regularly audit our cybersecurity capabilities. 

To support and strengthen our global data privacy 
initiatives, we have adopted the Automotive Consumer 
Privacy Protection Principles developed by the Alliance 
for Automotive Innovation. We are actively engaged 
with the Automotive Cybersecurity Industry Consortium 
(ACIC), a collaboration formed by the auto industry, 
research organizations, and government to strengthen 
cybersecurity in the automotive sector. The ACIC 
researches, develops, evaluates, and improves 
cybersecurity by addressing critical infrastructure needs 
in automotive systems. We are also a founding member 
of the Information Sharing and Analysis Center (Auto-
ISAC), which gathers, analyzes, and shares information 
to combat cyber-related threats and weaknesses. 

In 2021, Ford hired Rebecca Pagani as our first Chief 
Privacy Officer, demonstrating our commitment to 
protecting customer and company data. 

Data Insight and Analytics 
Harnessing the data provided by connected vehicles 
and using it to create even better experiences continues 
to be a key priority as vehicle connectivity becomes 
more prevalent. Our 1,615-strong Global Data, Insight and 
Analytics (GDI&A) team uses data science and analytics 
– including the power of AI and machine learning (ML) –
as the foundation of our innovations. This effort helps
us understand and anticipate consumer behavior
and accelerates the development of the mobility,
electrification, connectivity, and self-driving solutions
that will improve people’s lives.

Always acting with privacy in mind, we use analytics 
in research, product development, manufacturing, 
supply chain, marketing and sales, finance, purchasing, 
information technology, and human resources functions. 
Led by GDI&A, we’re also using artificial intelligence 
(AI) to enhance our vehicles and services, improve our 
product development and manufacturing processes, and 
deliver enhancements across the business. We are also 
in the process of developing an internal and external 
policy strategy for the use of AI to help us address a range 
of issues – including ensuring we keep bias out of our AI 
applications and improving customer experience in all 
interactions with Ford.

102  |  



Creating Responsible 
and Ethical Growth

Government Regulations, 
Policy and Engagement

Governments around the world make decisions on a variety of important policy issues 
that have an impact on Ford’s businesses. As a global company, it is critical that Ford has 
a voice to help inform the policies affecting our employees, customers, and shareholders. 
We believe strong engagement with government plays a key role in shaping the 
regulations and legislation that govern our business. 

That’s why the company participates openly and 
transparently in the political process to support local, 
state, national, and international policies that are 
economically, environmentally, and socially sustainable 
for our company, our customers, and their communities. 
This activity includes working with the United States 
Congress and the White House, as well as governments 
globally, on issues such as a consistent policy toward 
electrification in all markets, an EV charging 
infrastructure, the semiconductor chip shortage, battery 
recycling polices, an effective carbon tax, and opening 
up the supply of minerals to achieve our business, 
environmental, and employment objectives.

• As individual citizens, all employees are encouraged
to participate in political and governmental affairs.
Company efforts and programs to encourage employee
participation must respect fully the rights of employees
to use personal time as they choose and to decide the
extent and direction of their political activities.

• Ford’s management team is expected to keep informed

on governmental matters affecting the company’s
interests and, where appropriate, to participate in the
formulation and presentation of company positions
on relevant public issues. They also are expected to
do their part in fulfilling Ford’s responsibilities as a
corporate citizen, including participation in constructive
governmental activities on behalf of the company.

• Ford does not make contributions to political candidates

or political organizations nor otherwise employ its
resources for the purpose of helping to elect candidates
to public office, even when permitted by law, nor does
it take a position for partisan political purposes, that is,
specifically for the purpose of advancing the interest of
a political party or candidate for public office. However,
with the approval of the Office of the Chief Executive,
contributions may be made to support or oppose a state
or local ballot proposal if such contributions are
permitted by law and if the issue is of significant interest
or importance to Ford. Contributions not earmarked for
particular candidates or political organizations are
distributed at the discretion of the Ford’s Political
Contributions Committee.

In 2021, Ford hired Steven Croley as our first Chief Policy 
Officer. Croley guides the company as it further leverages 
and builds on its strengths in government relations, 
sustainability, safety, legal and privacy.

Trade Associations and Memberships Focusing  
on U.S. Policy Issues 
To use our resources effectively on key issues, we work 
with a broad range of coalitions, industry groups, and 
trade associations where we operate. This helps us 
exchange ideas and collaborate to develop and promote 
sensible policies that benefit our company, our industry, 
and society. These organizations often bring diverse 
viewpoints to the debate, and sometimes their views are 

not shared by Ford. At times we have exercised our 
right to make our own position clear and have taken 
an alternative path when it has been necessary. 

Climate Change
We believe there is strength and value in using 
memberships in our trade associations and coalitions to 
move these organizations toward positions more aligned 
with Ford’s views on climate. This helps us develop and 
promote policies that benefit our customers, company, 
industry, and society.

We will continue to make decisions based on what’s 
best for our customers, our environment, and our 
business. As a member of these groups, we work to 
make our position known and collaborate with others.

The California Settlement Agreement is a recent example 
of Ford’s leadership on climate change. Ford led the 
industry in aligning towards a fuel economy/GHG proposal 
with the California Air Resources Board, creating a 
50-state solution that is consistent with our common
vision for GHG reduction. As a result of these efforts, Ford
has not supported federal litigation against California’s
authority to set more stringent rules under the Clean Air
Act, instead advocating within the industry for a solution
that recognizes the authority of both the federal
government and California in shaping future climate policy.

Read more in our 2021 U.S. Political Engagement Report

By participating actively, we can shape policy and drive 
the industry to change, as we are doing – for example, 
to encourage groups to align with our progressive climate 
change strategy.

Ford supports a broad range of trade associations and 
coalitions to enhance our understanding of, and advocacy 
for, U.S. policy issues. These include: 

• 5G Automotive Association (5GAA)
• American Automotive Policy Council (AAPC)
• Alliance for Automotive Innovation
• CEO Climate Dialogue (CCD)
• Climate Leadership Coalition
• Engine Manufacturers Association
• Intelligent Transportation Society of America (ITSA)
• National Association of Manufacturers (NAM)
• National Safety Council
• NGVAmerica
• Partnership for Transportation Innovation Opportunity

(PTIO)

• Self-Driving Car Coalition
• U.S. Chamber of Commerce

103  |  



Driving Innovation and 
Sustainable Growth

Putting  
People First

Protecting the 
Environment

Creating Responsible 
and Ethical Growth

Accountable and 
Inclusive Governance

We need sound governance structures and policies to manage our business, drive 
performance, and create value responsibly and ethically. These processes and systems 
serve as the foundation for delivering on our sustainability strategy and integrating 
sustainability issues into our business decisions.

While maintaining a successful business, we also want 
our operations and activities to have a positive impact 
on the world. Our integrated governance systems and 
processes – including efforts to keep our business lean 
and agile by reducing bureaucracy, building skills, and 
adopting efficient ways of working – help us build 
sustainability across our company and capitalize on 
new opportunities in the future.

Our Board of Directors is guided by our Corporate 
Governance Principles, our Code of Business Conduct 
and Ethics for the Board of Directors, and charters for 
each Board committee. 



Read more about corporate governance in our most recent 
Proxy Statement

Ford’s Board of Directors has adopted its own Code of 
Business Conduct and Ethics, which is intended to focus 
the Board and each director on areas of ethical risk, 
provide guidance to help directors recognize and deal 
with ethical issues, provide mechanisms to report 
unethical conduct, and help foster a culture of honesty 
and accountability. Each director must comply with the 
letter and spirit of this code.

While no code or policy can anticipate every situation 
that may arise, this one is intended to serve as a source of 
guiding principles and practices for directors to promote 
the Board’s effective functioning and to maintain the trust 
of our stakeholders. 



Read more about the Governance & Policies on our 
corporate website

104  |  

Governance Principles and Practices 
Solid principles and practices of corporate governance 
are essential to maintaining the trust of investors. Ford’s 
Board of Directors has adopted corporate governance 
principles, policies, and practices to promote effective 
functioning of the Board, its committees, and the 
company as a whole.

Corporate Governance Principles – Together with the 
charters of the Audit Committee, the Compensation, 
Talent and Culture Committee, the Sustainability, 
Innovation and Policy Committee, the Finance Committee 
and the Nominating and Governance Committee, our 
Corporate Governance Principles provide the framework 
for the governance of Ford Motor Company. Our Board 
of Directors reviews these principles and other aspects 
of our governance annually or, more often, as deemed 
necessary or appropriate. The Board is elected by and 
responsible to Ford’s shareholders. Ford’s business is 
conducted by its employees, managers, and officers, 
under the direction of the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) 
and oversight of the Board, to enhance the long-term 
value of the company for its shareholders. The Board 
of Directors monitors the performance of the CEO and 
senior management to assure that the long-term 
interests of the shareholders are being served.

For additional information on the unique qualifications 
and demographic backgrounds of our Board members, 
refer to the Director Skills and Diversity Matrix and director 
biographies included in our most recent Proxy Statement.

Board of Directors composition

Board committees

A

Audit 
Committee

= Chair

Board members

Kimberly A.  
Casiano: 

A N S

Anthony 
F. Earley, Jr.:

C N S

James D.  
Farley, Jr.

William Clay  
Ford, Jr.: 

F S

William W.  
Helman IV: 

F N S

C

Compensation, 
Talent  
and Culture  
Committee

F

Finance 
Committee

N

S

Nominating  
and Governance 
Committee

Sustainability, 
Innovation and 
Policy 
 Committee

Jon M.  
Huntsman, Jr.: 

S

William E.  
Kennard: 

F N S

John C.  
May: 

C N F

Beth E.  
Mooney: 

A N

John L.  
Thornton: 

C F N

John B.  
Veihmeyer: 

A N

Lynn Vojvodich 
Radakovich: 

C N S

John S.  
Weinberg: 

C F N S

Alexandra Ford 
English 

F S

Henry  
Ford III 

F S

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Creating Responsible 
and Ethical Growth

Accountable and Inclusive Governance – continued

Changes to the Board in 2021

New directors:

Alexandra Ford English (effective May 13, 2021)

Henry Ford III (effective May 13, 2021)

John C. May (effective December 9, 2021)

Departed directors:

Edsel B. Ford II did not stand for re-election at the 
2021 Annual Meeting due to having reached the 
Board’s mandatory retirement age.

John C. Lechleiter did not stand for re-election at 
the 2021 Annual Meeting due to personal reasons.

Read more about our Board of Directors on our website

Corporate Governance Practices – Ford has a long 
history of operating under sound corporate governance 
practices, a critical element of creating the world’s most 
trusted company. These practices include:

•  Annual Election of All Directors
•  Majority Vote Standard: Each director must be elected 

by a majority of votes cast

•  Independent Board: The majority of our directors are 

independent

•  Lead Independent Director: Ensures management is 
adequately addressing the matters identified by the 
Board

•  Independent Board Committees: Each of the Audit, 
Compensation, Talent and Culture, and Nominating 
and Governance Committees is made up entirely of 
independent directors

•  Committee Charters: Each standing committee 
operates under a written charter that has been 
approved by the Board and is reviewed annually

105  |  

•  Independent Directors Meet Regularly Without 
Management and Non-Independent Directors

•  Regular Board and Committee Self- Evaluation 

Process: The Board and each committee evaluates 
its performance each year

•  Mandatory Deferral of Compensation for Directors: 
In 2021, approximately 68% of annual director fees 
were mandatorily deferred into Ford restricted stock 
units, which strongly links the interests of the Board 
with those of shareholders

•  Separate Chair of the Board and CEO: The Board of 

Directors has chosen to separate the roles of CEO and 
Chair of the Board of Directors

•  Confidential Voting at Annual Meeting
•  Special Meetings: Shareholders have the right to call 

a special meeting

•  Shareholders May Take Action by Written Consent
•  Strong Codes of Ethics: Ford is committed to operating 
its business with the highest level of integrity. It has 
adopted codes of ethics that apply to all directors and 
senior financial personnel, and a code of conduct that 
applies to all employees

•  Hedging and Pledging Policies: Officers are prohibited 

from hedging their exposure to, and limited in pledging, 
Ford common stock

Directors’ Remuneration
Effective as of January 1, 2017, the Board of Directors 
agreed that the following compensation will be paid 
to non-employee directors of the company:

•  Annual Board membership fee: $315,000
•  Annual Lead Independent Director fee: $50,000
•  Annual Audit Committee chair fee: $30,000
•  Annual Compensation, Talent and Culture Committee 

chair fee: $25,000

•  Annual other Committee chair fees: $20,000

Approximately 68% of the Annual Board membership 
fee is paid in Restricted Stock Units (RSUs), and certain 
directors choose to receive all or a portion of their fees, 
in addition to the mandatory portion, in RSUs.





Creating Responsible 
and Ethical Growth

Accountable and Inclusive Governance – continued

Sustainability Governance
We employ a variety of governance systems and processes 
to manage different aspects of sustainability across our 
business, as summarized throughout this report.

The newly named Sustainability, Innovation and Policy 
Committee, formerly the Sustainability and Innovation 
Committee, is responsible for reviewing and advising 
Ford’s pursuit of innovative policies and technologies 
that promote product safety, improve environmental 
and social sustainability, including human rights, working 
conditions, and responsible sourcing. The committee’s 
focus reflects Ford’s increased emphasis on policy 
relating to all aspects of our business to achieve our 
sustainable goals and innovation pursuits.

The Compensation Committee was renamed the 
Compensation, Talent and Culture Committee in 2021, 
reflecting its expanded responsibilities regarding key 
people-related business strategies, including leadership 
succession planning; culture; diversity, equity, and 
inclusion; and talent development programs.

Management Processes
As outlined below, we have a number of management 
processes, systems, committees, and groups in place 
that are designed to help us improve our sustainability 
performance, act responsibly and ethically, and take 
responsibility for the impact our activities have on 
society and the world around us. 

Board’s Role in Risk Management
The oversight responsibility of the Board and its 
committees is supported by Company management 
and the risk management processes that are currently in 
place. Ford has extensive and effective risk management 
processes, relating specifically to compliance, reporting, 
operating, and strategic risks. These include:

• Compliance Risk encompasses matters such as

legal and regulatory compliance (e.g., Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act, environmental, OSHA/safety, etc.).

• Reporting Risk covers Sarbanes-Oxley compliance,
disclosure controls and procedures, and accounting
compliance.

• Operating Risk addresses the myriad of matters related
to the operation of a complex company such as Ford
(e.g., quality, supply chain, sales and service, financing
and liquidity, product development and engineering,
labor, etc.).

• Strategic Risk encompasses somewhat broader and
longer-term matters, including, but not limited to,
technology development, environmental and social
sustainability, capital allocation, management
development, retention and compensation, competitive
developments, and geopolitical developments.

We believe that key success factors in the risk 
management at Ford include a strong risk analysis tone 
set by the Board and senior management, which is shown 
through their commitment to effective top-down and 
bottom-up communication (including communication 
between management and the Board and Committees), 
and active cross-functional participation among the 
Business Units and Functional Skill Teams. 

We have institutionalized a regular Forecast, Controls and 
Risk Review and Special Attention Review process where 
the senior leadership of the Company reviews the status 
of the business, the risks, and opportunities presented to 
the business (in the areas of compliance, reporting, 
operating, and strategic risks), and develops specific 
plans to address those risks and opportunities.

The Enterprise Risk Management process adopted 
by the Company identifies the top critical enterprise 
risks identified through a survey process of senior 
management and the Board of Directors. Once identified, 
each of the top risks is assigned an executive risk owner 

106  |  

Management Processes

Board Committees

Executive Management

Function Areas

Sustainability, Innovation and Policy Committee 
• Meets at least three times a year 
• Primary responsibility for assessing the company’s progress on strategic economic, product 

safety, environmental and social issues, as well as the degree to which sustainability 
principles have been integrated into the various skill teams 

• Evaluates and advises on innovations and technologies that improve our economic, product 
safety, environmental and social sustainability, enrich our customers’ experiences, increase 
shareholder value, and improve people’s lives 

• Reviews the Integrated Sustainability and Financial Report summary as well as any 

Company initiatives related to sustainability and innovation

Read the Charter of the Sustainability, Innovation and Policy Committee

Other Board committees: Audit, Compensation, Talent and Culture, Nominating and 
Governance, and Finance

Vice President, Chief Sustainability, Environment and Safety Officer
• Primary responsibility for sustainability issues
• Oversees the Sustainability and Vehicle Environmental Matters group, the Environmental 

Quality Office, the Vehicle Homologation and Compliance group and the Automotive 
Safety Office

• Leads a multi-disciplinary executive-level team that oversees actions in response to our 
sustainability strategies and integration and issues related to our We Are Committed to 
Human Rights and the Environment Policy

Other executive and group vice presidents across our functional areas also have 
responsibility for sustainability-related issues. These include our Chief People and Employee 
Experiences Officer and our Chief Diversity Officer.

Sustainability and Vehicle Environmental Matters
• Coordinates our company wide sustainability strategy and activities
• Leads our sustainability reporting and stakeholder engagement
• Collaborates with other functional areas and skill teams to integrate sustainability 

throughout the company

Oversight of Risk Management

Compliance and Reporting

Operating and Strategic

Ford Board 
Oversight

Audit Committee

Ford Management 
Day to Day

Compliance Reviews 
Sarbanes-Oxley Compliance 
Internal Controls 
Disclosure Committee

Sustainability, Innovation and Policy 
Committee 
Compensation, Talent and Culture 
Committee 
Finance Committee 
Audit Committee

Business Units and Skill Teams 
Forecast, Controls and Risk Review 
Special Attention Review 
Product, Strategy and People Forums



Creating Responsible 
and Ethical Growth

Accountable and Inclusive Governance – continued

The scope and severity of risks presented by cyber 
threats have increased dramatically, and constant 
vigilance is required to protect against intrusions. We take 
cyber threats very seriously and regularly audit our cyber 
security capabilities. These audits are a useful tool for 
ensuring that we maintain a robust cyber security 
program to protect our investors, customers, employees, 
and intellectual property. The Audit Committee receives 
updates several times per year from the Chief Information 
Security Officer regarding technology and cyber security 
risk and conducts regular reviews of our cyber security 
practices, with report outs to the Board as appropriate. 
As part of its risk assessment procedures, the Board 
reviews relevant cyber security and information 
technology matters at least twice annually.

We also maintain an industry-leading cyber security 
insurance program with many of the world’s largest and 
most respected insurance companies. Additionally, we 
are a founding member of the Board of the Automotive 
Information Sharing and Analysis Center. Our current seat 
on that board ensures that we preserve relationships that 
help to protect ourselves against both enterprise and 
in-vehicle security risks.

Read more about our Board committees in our most recent 

Proxy Statement

Charter of the Audit Committee 

Charter of the Compensation, Talent and Culture Committee

Charter of the Finance Committee

Charter of the Nominating and Governance Committee

Charter of the Sustainability, Innovation and Policy Committee

who is responsible to oversee risk assessment, develop 
mitigation plans, and provide regular updates. The 
Enterprise Risk Management process also engages 
Business Units and Skill Teams to determine which of 
the enterprise risks are most relevant to their specific 
objectives, and identify any additional risks that can be 
managed at a lower level in the organization. Risks at 
all levels are shared and aligned for a top-down and 
bottom-up view and management of risk. The Audit 
Committee and Board annually review the process to 
update the list of critical risks and monitor risk movement 
and emerging trends.

As noted above, the full Board of Directors has overall 
responsibility for the oversight of risk management at Ford 
and oversees operating risk management with reviews at 
each of its regular Board meetings. The Board of Directors 
has delegated responsibility for the oversight of specific 
areas of risk management to certain committees of the 
Board, with each Board committee reporting to the full 
Board following each committee meeting. The Audit 
Committee assists the Board of Directors in overseeing 
compliance and reporting risk. The Sustainability, 
Innovation and Policy Committee assists the Board of 
Directors in overseeing environmental and social 
sustainability risks, while the Compensation, Talent and 
Culture Committee assists the Board of Directors in 
overseeing risks related to compensation and people-
related business strategies, including leadership 
succession and culture, diversity, and inclusion. The Board 
and the appropriate committees also periodically review 
other policies related to personnel matters, including those 
related to sexual harassment and anti-retaliation policies 
related to whistleblowers. The Board, the Sustainability, 
Innovation and Policy Committee, the Compensation, 
Talent and Culture Committee, the Finance Committee, 
and the Audit Committee all play a role in overseeing 
operating and strategic risk management.

107  |  



Creating Responsible 
and Ethical Growth

Reporting Scope, Boundaries 
and Data Assurance

Ford’s 2021 GHG inventory (including Scope 1, 2 and 3) is 
third-party verified by an organization with a Certification 
of Accreditation to ISO 14065:2013 by the ANSI National 
Accreditation Board and will become available at a later 
date. In addition, some manufacturing operations, as 
required by regulation, are also third-party verified 
following the respective regulatory requirements, such 
as EU-ETS. Find out more about EU-ETS in our CDP 
Climate Response, section 11.1.

Ford reports facility carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) 
emissions to national emissions registries or other 
authorities in the U.S., Canada, Mexico, South Africa, 
China, Germany, Spain, and the U.K.

Various environmental data is reported to regulatory 
authorities. Ford’s facility environmental data is managed 
using our Global Emissions Manager database and an 
internally developed strategies management tool, which 
provides a globally consistent approach to measurement 
and monitoring. The kind of assurance used for each data 
set is noted in the data charts.

Reporting Scope and Boundaries 
Consistent with GRI guidance on boundary setting, the 
data in this report covers all of Ford Motor Company’s 
wholly and majority-owned operations globally, unless 
otherwise noted, and spans 2021 operations and vehicles. 
Boundaries for each material issue are noted in our GRI 
Content Index.

Where relevant, data measurement techniques, the 
bases of calculations, and changes in the basis for 
reporting or reclassifications of previously reported data 
are included as footnotes.

For this report, we have followed the International <IR> 
Framework of the International Integrated Reporting 
Council (IIRC) to provide a cohesive and comprehensive 
approach to our corporate reporting. However, we remain
flexible and open to new approaches as the dynamic 
reporting environment continues to evolve.

Data Assurance 
Data in this report is subject to various forms of assurance, 
as outlined below and noted in the data tables. The 
summary report has been reviewed by Ford’s top senior 
executives, as well as the Sustainability, Innovation and 
Policy Committee of the Board of Directors.

Some of the data in our reports has been subject to 
internal and third-party verification.

The consolidated financial statements in our Form 10-K 
have been audited by our independent registered public 
accounting firm.

108  |  

 


Creating Responsible 
and Ethical Growth

Disclaimers

1. These targets have been approved by the Science

10. Based on an analysis of more than 30 million miles

20. Actual data through November 2021, forecast data

Based Target initiative.

of telematics data.

for December 2021.

2. FordPass and Lincoln Way, compatible with select

11. Cargo Van low-roof models.

21. Feature availability varies by model.

22. Driver-assist features are supplemental and do not

replace the driver’s attention, judgment, and need to
control the vehicle. Ford BlueCruise is a hands-free
highway driving feature. Only remove hands from
the steering wheel when in a Hands-Free Blue Zone.
Always watch the road and be prepared to resume
control of the vehicle. It does not replace safe driving.
See Owner’s Manual for detail and limitations.
Requires purchased 3-year connected service plan
with regular map updates, FordPass App, and
modem activation.

23. Not to be used as an official load weight scale.

smartphone platforms, is available via a download.
Message and data rates may apply.

3. Based on original equipment manufacturers (OEM)/

automotive manufacturers that sell all-electric
vehicles and have active charging networks.
Department of Energy data used.

4. Based on 1977-2021 CY total sales.

5. Based on IHS Markit New Registrations data CY2014-
CYE 2020, which is compiled from government and
other sources and captures 95% of global new vehicle
volumes in more than 80 countries as reported in
February 2021. Transit family-based volumes of vans,
wagons, chassis cabs, and cutaways include Ford
Transit, Transit Custom, Transit Classic, and Transit
Kombi. Excludes Transit Connect and Transit Courier.

6. Based on manufacturer testing using computer
engineering simulations. Calculated via peak
performance of the electric motor(s) at peak battery
power. Your results may vary.

7. Targeted performance reflects current status based

on analytical projections consistent with U.S.
Automotive publication processes. Final performance
times will be available in the 2022 calendar year.

8. As of Jan 4, 2022.

12. Scheduled maintenance costs for the E-Transit are
estimated to be 40% lower than those of a gas-
powered 2020 Transit.

13. Like saws, drills, and jackhammers.

14. Based on the total U.S. reported sales (1979-2021CY).
Includes Ford E-Series, formerly called Econoline, van
and chassis; Club Wagon; Transit Connect cargo van
and passenger wagon; Transit cargo van, passenger
van and chassis.

15. For North America and the EU.

16. Additional plants that support our Automotive segment
are operated by unconsolidated joint ventures of which
we are a partner. See 10-K for more information.

17. See Form 10-K, pages 75 – 78 for definitions and

reconciliations
to GAAP (U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles).

18. When home is properly equipped and home transfer
switch disconnects home from the grid. Based on
30 kWh use per day using the F-150 Lightning with
the extended-range battery. Your results may vary
depending on energy usage. Rationing power assumes
limiting the number of devices and turning the truck
off when not needed.

9. Ford test data based on typical industry methodology

using 1-ft rollout. Your results may vary.
