Driven  
by Impact

Fisker Inc.

2 0 2 1   E S G   I m p a c t   R e p o r t

Fisker Inc.
1888 Rosecrans Avenue
Manhattan Beach, CA 
90266 United States
fiskerinc.com

Patrick Newsom,  
Director, ESG
pnewsom@fiskerinc.com

Rebecca Lindland,  
Director, Communications
rlindland@fiskerinc.com

PG.1

“ESG is deeply rooted 
in our culture to ensure 
the continuation of our 
business and personal 
—
mobility in the future.

Henrik Fisker, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Fisker Inc.

“ 

Photography by Nick Jones  [Cover] / Julia Verea [PG. 2] on Unsplash 

PG.2

“Looking ahead to the 
moment we release a 
climate neutral vehicle 
keeps us inspired  
 —
and committed.
“

ESG must be the foundation of any auto company striving to ensure the future of personal mobility. 

Fisker is influencing the auto industry by demonstrating innovative and positive change, beginning 

with the release of the all-electric, five-passenger Fisker Ocean SUV in Q4 2022.  

Fisker puts People and Planet first in everything we do. We incorporate sustainability into our 

systems thinking, where environmental consideration permeates every decision. This mindset 

shows from even the most minor actions – we sourced the end bolts of theatre fabric, destined 

for the landfill, for our product reveals – to the most visible, such as the large solar roof available 

on the Fisker Ocean. We have solidified partnerships with leading, like-minded global suppliers 

who share our sustainability and human rights values and systems philosophy. Our sustainable 

practices collectively align with our demand for high-quality design, materials, and components, 

resulting in products offering an engaging driving experience harnessing innovative technology. 

For design and sustainability, every detail matters.  

The tens of thousands of Fisker Ocean SUV reservation holders share our values. Our vehicles 

provide a reasonably priced, premium quality, technology-driven mobility experience. We believe 

these reservations and early commitments for our next offering, the Fisker PEAR, are making a 

statement: consumers want electric vehicles with features that surpass other mobility choices.   

This report expresses our firm commitment to transparency, providing an account of our 

sustainable actions and future planning, even before our first vehicles roll off the line at a carbon 

neutral production facility. Foundational to our business, Fisker continues to support the United 

Nations Global Compact and its Ten Principles, preventing corruption and protecting human 

rights, labor, and the environment, helping us keep to our ESG ethos. Fisker and our partners will 

continue to move rapidly toward delivering world-class, sustainable products that meet today's 

market demand.

Henrik Fisker

PG.3
PG.3

“Before joining Fisker, I had the 

opportunity to speak with both 
Henrik and Geeta. It became 
quite clear to me that both were 
visionaries and dedicated  
to embedding ESG across the 
company. I knew this was  
going to be meaningful and 
powerful work.

—

“ 
  Patrick Newsom, Director, ESG at Fisker

Photography by Malik Earnest on Unsplash

PG.4

Corporate Overview

Founded in 2016 by Henrik Fisker and Dr. Geeta Gupta-Fisker, three principles drive Fisker Inc.: 

Design, Sustainability, and Innovation, providing a combined singular discipline to all aspects  

of the business.  

Fisker is committed to creating a clean future for all. Our goal is to build the world's leading, digital-

first, next-generation mobility company from day one. We are dedicated to creating environmentally 

friendly, accessible products in an innovation-focused and socially responsible setting,  

as evidenced by our aspiration to produce a climate-neutral vehicle by 2027. 

We drive this philosophy through a strong, diverse, experienced leadership team dedicated to our 

principles. ESG governance at Fisker follows this structure:    

Head of ESG

Fisker appointed a head of ESG who partners with every business function 
across the company.

ESG Working Group

With leadership representatives from key functional areas, the ESG Working 
Group meets weekly to guide strategy alignment and address new issues.

Executive Leadership

Executive leadership meets with the ESG director monthly to review progress 
towards and provide sponsorship of achieving long-term goals.

ESG Advisory Council

Chaired by the company CEO, with the head of ESG as secretary. The council 
currently has one member from outside the organization and will add additional 
outside members with proven social and environmental impact track records. 
Fisker ESG Advisory Council meets 2x yearly to discuss public-facing issues 
and recommend actions.

Board of Directors

The diverse Fisker Board of Directors oversees our environmental and social 
program strategy and reviews public disclosures.

Through this approach, we continually manage our company to serve the needs of all our 

stakeholders better and ultimately deliver greater returns for profit, people, and planet. 

PG.5
PG.5

Fisker Inc. Board of Directors

37% Female 

Leadership

Henrik Fisker

Chief Executive Officer 

and Chairman of the 

Board of Directors

William R. McDermott

Chief Executive Officer 

of ServiceNow, Inc.

Dr. Geeta Gupta-Fisker

Roderick K. Randall

Chief Operating Officer 

and Chief Financial 

Officer of Fisker Inc.

Wendy J. Greuel

Former City 

Controller— 

Los Angeles

Executive Partner at 

Siris Capital Group, LLC

Nadine I. Watt

Chief Executive Officer 

of Watt Companies, Inc.

Mark E. Hickson

Mitch Zuklie

Executive Vice 

President of Corporate 

Development, Strategy, 

Quality & Integration  

at NextEra Energy, Inc.

Chief Executive Officer 

of Orrick

PG.6

Snapshot

San Francisco—R&D

Designed 
in California

Culver City—Design

Manhattan Beach—Headquarters

as of Dec 2021

3 Main Offices
327 Employees  
Nov 2022 Planned Start of Production 
Fisker designs highly competitive  
and affordable all-electric vehicles

for the Fisker Ocean

Fisker is expanding globally with employees and growth in the US, 

Canada, UK, Denmark, Germany, India, and more throughout 2022  

with details to follow in the Fisker 2022 annual ESG report. Headcount  

as of August 1, 2022: 537.

PG.7

Our vision

A Clean Future 
for All

Photography by Agustin Gunawan on Unsplash

PG.8

Our mission

Create the world's 
most emotional and 
sustainable vehicles

Photography owned by Fisker Inc.

PG.9

Henrik Fisker

Fisker Inc. comes with a strong brand history through automotive pioneer 

and tech innovator Henrik Fisker. Henrik designs some of the most iconic 

vehicles ever made, from a legendary sports car driven by James Bond to 

his latest creations, the all-electric Fisker Ocean, Fisker PEAR, and Project 

Rónin. Henrik’s commitment to beauty, innovation, and clean mobility led 

him to build Fisker Inc., a company disrupting the automotive industry 

through beautiful craftsmanship, ingenious engineering, innovation, 

affordability, and sustainability.  

Henrik’s guiding philosophy of combining world-class technology  

with masterful artistry inspires every vehicle Fisker Inc. brings to life. 

Photography owned by Fisker Inc.

PG.10

Sustainability Story

Since its inception in 2016, dedication to sustainability defines Fisker Inc.  

Key moments demonstrate the sustainability heartbeat at Fisker:    

•  Carbon neutrality is in our founding announcement.  

•  Fisker commits to non-financial ESG reporting BEFORE going public.  

•  Fisker carefully chooses like-minded partners, including Magna  

with its carbon-neutral factory. 

• 

In 2021, Fisker announced an aspirational goal to create a 100% 

climate neutral vehicle by 2027.  

•  Utilizing all-electric, emissions free Fisker vehicles enables other 

companies to reach goals of zero emissions mobility.  

•  Fisker signed the United Nations Global Compact as a participant.  

•  Fisker underscored its commitment to safety, releasing the world's first 

digital radar. 

•  Fisker released this inaugural ESG Impact report.    

Fisker adopted all these actions even BEFORE the start of production  

of the Fisker Ocean, scheduled for November 2022. Fisker is poised  

to redefine the standards of sustainability in the automobile industry. 

November
Fisker Inc. is founded by Henrik Fisker and Dr. Geeta Gupta

October
Fisker announces all-electric Fisker Ocean SUV

June
Fisker commits to measuring and reporting on environmental, 
social, and governance (ESG) practices, setting the standard 
for ESG reporting

October
Fisker partners with Magna, exclusive manufacturer  
for Fisker Ocean SUV

October
Fisker begins trading on the NYSE under "FSR" ticker

March
Fisker signs MOU with Credit Agricole Consumer Finance  
for Fisker Ocean EVs as a function of its own net zero ambition

April
Fisker marks World Earth Day by calling for action on a 
new federal program titled "75 And More For 55 And Less," 
encouraging adoption of clean energy mobility powered  
by sophisticated automotive technology developed  
in America for use around the world

June
Fisker announces a target date of 2027 for 100% climate 
neutral vehicle

August
Fisker secured a $625 million Green Convertible Bond 
intended specifically for new or existing eligible green 
initiatives for new model and technology development

November
Fisker reveals its production intent version of the Fisker Ocean 
SUV, featuring an emotionally invigorating, sleek, and stylish 
exterior with ultra-slim lighting, based on a wide stance that 
enhances handling and emphasizes its road presence

December
Fisker commits to the United Nations Global Compact

January
Fisker reveals world's first digital radar in a production vehicle, 
bringing state-of-the-art safety to Fisker Ocean SUV

August
Releases this inaugural ESG Impact Report, aligned with 
Sustainable Accounting Standards Board and setting ESG key 
performance indicators ahead of first production

Q4
Fisker Ocean SUV production starts

PG.11

20162018202020222021 
People and 
Planet First

Introduction

People  

Fisker was founded on “People & Planet First” 

Fisker is a growing company made for the 

principles now deeply embedded across all 

future with like-minded experts. Building a  

business functions at the company. Fisker's 

team with deep knowledge and focus  

foundational purpose of sustainability, coupled 

on the environment is a strategic imperative. 

with a fierce requisite for innovation, creates 

Functional team professionals will quickly 

more than forward-thinking, future-forward 

become leaders as Fisker grows in the  

vehicles: it establishes a Fisker mentality. 

near term.  

This unique culture challenges all traditional 

decisions to push sustainability further.   

We performed a company-wide materiality 

assessment to identify the relevance and 

We are a young organization built on solid 

impacts of our work using the United Nations 

expertise in all aspects. Fisker business 

Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDGs). 

practices are meant to disrupt, challenge 

Internal functional departments structured 

thinking, and set an example for our industry 

and aligned with the UNSDG objectives to set 

and beyond. 

In November 2021, Fisker became a signatory 

of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), 

aligning with internationally accepted human 

rights, labor, the environment, and  

anti-corruption principles.   

As aptly noted on the UNGC website,  

“By incorporating the Ten Principles of the UN 

Global Compact into strategies, policies  

and procedures, and establishing a culture  

of integrity, companies are not only  

upholding their basic responsibilities to people 

and planet, but also setting the stage  

for long-term success.” 

performance targets.  Departments now focus 

on milestones to achieve targets, meeting  

on a regular cadence to report progress and 

course correct. Additionally, 2021 cultivated 

groundwork development of policies and 

procedures that reflect Fisker values, including 

fostering a transparent and open feedback 

culture and identifying priority issues  

for employees, including diversity, equity, 

and inclusion (DEI), pay equity, and work/

life balance. These dedicated workstreams 

started with benchmarking in 2021, and 

decisions on action plans extend into 2022.  

PG.12

Fisker Employee Headcount Growth

537

327

101

December 31, 2020

December 31, 2021

August 1, 2022

Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion 
(DEI) Statement 

Diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) are values 

Fisker strives to reinforce in everything our 

company does, both internally and externally. 

DEI, like sustainability, has been integral to our 

culture since the company was founded and 

continues to be something we seek to nurture 

and extend at each opportunity. At Fisker, 

inclusion unleashes the power of diversity.  

At the same time, the pursuit of equity eliminates 

barriers, engenders respect, enhances dignity, 

and helps us recognize that our employees, 

customers, and partners are unique.   

  During the first day of onboarding, every employee, 
regardless of function,  is educated on Fisker's 
foundational ESG purpose and how it is integrated  
into decision-making. We challenge each employee  
to consider these questions with every  task:

•  Are we doing the best we can for the environment?  

•  Are we doing the best we can for the fair treatment  

of people?

We endeavor to foster a sense of belonging 

and empowerment in our workplace, create 

sustainable products for our customers, listen 

before engaging in our communities, and labor 

as a team alongside our various suppliers. Our 

environment is inclusive, accepting, authentic, 

and free of judgments and bullying. We 

celebrate the variety of race, gender, sexual 

orientation (LGBTI+), creed, age, and abilities, 

and we actively support the freedom of an 

individual to express themselves  

in appearance and identity.   

These core values are protected by our leaders 

and bolstered by a company-wide mandate 

to be transparent. Our policies are also global, 

as we believe human rights for all people must 

be guarded and defended. Ultimately, Fisker 

wants everyone who works for us and with us, 

and anyone who interacts with our company 

or uses our products, to experience a strong 

sense of belonging and intrinsic value.  

Our culture demands the thoughtful 

development of our DEI work. Beyond 

benchmarking, some immediate actions to set 

PG.13

the tone of our growth include a focus on providing hiring opportunities 

for women and BIPOC minorities, without bias of gender identity. Our 

process consists of a purposeful interview panel design and the need  

to identify an applicant tracking software providing data-based  

decision-making. 

We formalized our first employee resource group, “Women of Fisker,” 

and its progress will influence the development of future employee 

resource groups. The “Women of Fisker” group extends to all levels of the 

organization with the company co-founder and CFO, Dr. Geeta Gupta-

Fisker, as executive sponsor. A charter for the organization has been 

developed and will be ratified in 2022.

2021 Safe Return to Office

COVID-19 prompted a fully remote work environment for nearly all employees. 
A comprehensive playbook on safely returning to work has proven successful. 
Actions included:  
•  Physical entry protocols  
•  PPE provisions  
•  Healthcare screen via an external partner  
•  Exposure/response protocols and contact tracing  
•  Required vaccination for all in-office employees  
•  Continual policy updates, accommodating regulation changes and  

CDC guidelines  

•  Hybrid work model to reduce office population hot spots  

Employee feedback also solidified a hybrid work practice that began  

as a method to help employees stay safe with COVID-19 and developed  

into a true hybrid work model. Considerations for the environment  

by avoiding commuting emissions were part of the determination, and we 

are calculating the benefits of such a decision. Most employees work  

in the office two days a week and remotely for three. A cross-functional 

team reviewed the hybrid work strategy and created a policy aligned  

with employee work/life balance and reduced employee commuting.

PG.14

Community Engagement   

A conscience consideration of where we live, 

potential re-use and recycling. The events 

work, and play harmonizes perfectly with our 

are highly successful, based on employee 

sustainability outlook. While headquartered 

participation. At a recent event, in addition 

in California, our diverse workforce makes us 

to the physical clean-up, employees were 

global citizens. How we work, what and how 

presented with an interactive, informational 

we produce products, and our ambition align  

session on ocean pollution and the 

with our collective environmental stewardship. 

ecological impact of micro-plastics  

As we grow, so does our social and 

with environmental activist, pro surfer, and 

environmental responsibility, and we continue 

Fisker brand ambassador Zane Kekoa 

to develop our social accountability in ways 

Schweitzer and Fisker CEO Henrik Fisker. 

that relate to our business and employees.   

The Fisker Ocean, scheduled to launch in 

Beyond the natural contribution of our  

products, Fisker reaches the community in two 

additional ways:    

•  As a California-based company, the 

Pacific Ocean is a cherished reminder 

of our relationship with the environment. 

Fisker employees participate in bi-annual 

beach clean-ups, combing the sands and 

filling commercial-sized bags with beach 

plastic and other discarded materials. 

The bags are then post-sorted for any 

November, incorporates captured ocean 

plastic within the carpet material lining the 

interior of the electric vehicle. 

•  Henrik Fisker's hand drawing of the 

Fisker Ocean was translated into an NFT 

and auctioned through energy-efficient 

blockchain partner Solana. Fisker Inc. 

donated a portion of the funds raised to the 

Ocean Conservancy. Emissions related  

to the energy consumed from the 

transactions will be offset by donations  

to forest conservation in Brazil in perpetuity.  

Photography owned by Fisker Inc.

PG.15

Planet  

People and Planet First is not a placard in our 

future through supplier modeling, production, 

lobby but a daily decision-making practice that 

sales, and delivery methods, and enhancing 

is a cultural norm as we strive to create  

the consumer experience.  

A Clean Future for All. The Fisker business 

model radically challenges what it means  

to be an original equipment manufacturer in the 

automotive industry. Fisker is modernizing the 

mobility industry, preparing for a sustainable 

This section highlights Fisker operations and 

our environmental footprint, built purposefully 

and with smart growth planning integrating 

sustainability into the process.  

Fisker Operation

Office Operations

Two offices + One design studio

Asset Light Model

Direct-to-consumer marketing sales model

Consumer Experiences

Cloud-based maintenance and upgrades
Sustainable merchandise

Office Operations 

Fisker thoughtfully incorporated the  

Our offices are guided by our sustainability 

sustainable values in our mantra when setting 

agenda when making operational decisions:  

up our office spaces: use better, use less, and 

use again. Office selections included  

locations with existing environmental strengths, 

and we then created operational models  

to minimize impact.  

PG.16

Manhattan Beach  

•  Los Angeles Green Building certification (achieved), inclusive of:  

•  Efficient energy and LED lighting system, including occupancy sensors  

•  Efficient water system  

•  Recycling with clear signage to avoid contamination  

•  Composting (in-process)  

•  Building energy management system  

•  Custodial supplies and safe chemicals  

•  Pest prevention and management system  

•  Runs on 100% renewable energy (50 Hydro/50 Wind) 

•  Outfitted with 40% locally sourced, pre-owned furniture  

•  Recycling in place, plans for adding composting 

•  Employee food sourced through local vendors, with meatless options 

San Francisco 

•  San Francisco Green Building Certification (achieved) 

•  LED lighting, occupancy sensors 

•  Efficient energy and lighting systems 

•  Efficient water system 

•  Recycling in place, plans for adding composting 

•  Green custodial and chemical products  

•  Green pest control 

•  Employee food sourced through local vendors, with meatless options 

Culver City  

•  Runs on 50% renewable energy 

(Design Studio)

•  Build out with 100% pre-owned furniture 

•  Green custodial products 

•  Employee food sourced through local vendors, with meatless options

Like many in 2020 and 2021, Fisker offices 

moved from fully remote into an employee-

preferred hybrid model with employees 

working from home and our two offices. The 

hybrid model supported our employees' 

interest in managing work/life balance and  

our low environmental-impact values. In 2022, 

we will continue studying how to improve  

this hybrid work model and incorporate 

employee feedback.  

Emissions 

Fisker emissions tracking is gaining  

momentum. In 2021, we reported Scope 1 and 

Scope 2 emissions, laying the groundwork  

for continued improvement. Ahead  

of production, our offices are the most 

significant contributor to our footprint.  

PG.17

Fisker  2021 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Inventory, tCO2e

Scope 1 Emissions

Manhattan Beach Office Heating

San Francisco Office Heating

Culver City Studio Heating

Vehicle Testing/Validation: Gasoline Vehicles

Total  Scope 1 Emissions

Scope 2 Emissions

Manhattan Beach Office Electricity Use

San Francisco Office Electricity Use

Culver City Studio Electricity Use

Vehicle Testing/Validation: Electric Vehicles

Total Scope 2 Emissions

Grand Total

173.91

1.67 

15.82 

17.79 

209.19

138.69

3.83

6.82

4.70

154.04

363.22 

Corporate expansion and the release of the all-

Asset Light Model 

electric Fisker Ocean SUV in November 2022 

will impact emissions results. We designed 

systems to calculate emissions against this 

growth and will track and report an accurate 

picture of our overall environmental impact 

Fisker is a design-forward organization stirred 

by the powerful shape and emotional appeal 

of our vehicles. This innovative inspiration 

stretches to our "Asset Light" business model. 

each year. Fisker does not purchase offsets  

For decades, vehicle companies worked  

for our operations and plans to use climate-

within the same basic business model, 

neutral services to support our business.    

"Our corporate culture is forward-thinking  

and pushes boundaries while delivering  
class-leading performance. Our systems are 
built for speed and efficiency.  It’s a pivotal  
time for Fisker. We are fully focused  
on our vision for the future, offering a quality, 
innovative, and sustainable personal 
transportation experience.

—

“ 

  Dr. Geeta Gupta-Fisker, Chief Financial Officer 

requiring a significant up-front financial 

commitment to create asset-heavy and 

environmentally impactful delivery-to-

distribution points for the consumer. At Fisker, 

we shifted this thinking into a more modern, 

nimble, technology-forward "Asset Light" 

approach. Asset Light is more than a good 

business model: it squarely supports our values 

and purpose. In 2022, we will present a carbon 

footprint calculation of avoided emissions 

thanks to our Asset Light modern approach.   

PG.18

Asset Light Model Levers 
•  Forecasting – By the end of 2021, we received tens  

of thousands of retail reservations and more  
than 50,000 Fisker Ocean vehicles reserved by the 
time of this report

•  700 fleet reservations for the Fisker Ocean. Pre-

orders help speed ramp-up periods  

•  Supplier Partners – Like-minded strategic 

partnerships that focus on key components  
of production create a shared ambition for success 
in all aspects of development

•  Leveraging existing automotive build capacity  

with no new facilities created

•  Direct-to-consumer sales: We own our consumer 
experience from reservation through purchasing  
and last-mile delivery with an expressed focus  
on providing a transparent, quality acquisition and 
ownership experience

Consumer Experience  

Fisker is rethinking every aspect of the 

consumer experience. We purposefully 

designed a frustration-free ownership model, 

ensuring a friendly and engaging experience 

with easy, efficient solutions from reservation, 

acquisition, service, and end-of-use.   

Customer relations moves past traditional 

"required maintenance" models into "predictive 

maintenance" identification with proactive 

alerts.  We are transforming the service 

narrative into an on-site or pick-up and drop-off 

service aligned with an owner's schedule  

to maximize convenience. 

Fisker aligns strategies to our customer values, 

and increasing Fisker Ocean reservations  

at individual and fleet levels supports this belief.  

Financing options  

Fisker's nominated financial institution 

partnerships purposefully designed loan 

flexibility into the decision-making process  

for consumers choosing personal 

transportation, supporting a seamless 

financing experience. 

•  Purchase the vehicle outright  

•  Lease with high annual mileage 

allowances and zero-commitment  

term flexibility 

These choices are available because of our 

confidence in Fisker vehicles, industry-leading 

warranties, and an expectation of lower 

maintenance and better performance over the 

lifetime of our vehicles.  

PG.19

Smart Management  

Driving a technology-forward business model 

and consumer experience forces an equivalent 

need for quality security and privacy measures 

to protect our data information technology and 

product portfolio. Transformative innovations  

in vehicle design are laying the groundwork  

for self-driving smart vehicles through 

electrification, data sharing, and hyper-

connectivity. These innovations are 

changing the nature of transportation and 

our relationships with the cars that move 

us. Connectivity and digitalization are now 

foundational business enablers. We  

recognize the growing dependence  

on cybersecurity to assure the enterprise  

and our digital innovations.  

"Enhanced connectivity is central to vehicle 

innovation and the commercialization of these 
'always on / connected' vehicles. The new 
digital frontier is bringing about autonomous 
driving, fleet management, app-based control 
capabilities, and real-time telematics data 
collection. While connectivity brings new 
opportunities and capabilities, the rapid 
evolution of these systems also presents new 
complexities, including security and privacy 
risks that must be managed across the 
lifecycle of the vehicle.

—

“ 

  Dr. Geeta Gupta-Fisker, Chief Financial Officer 

in both the hardware and software layers. Our 

security and privacy-by-design approach 

considers digital risk at concept  

and throughout the product's lifecycle, a 

process that is key to maintaining ISO/SAE 

21434 compliance. 

Our goal is to continuously balance 

technological advances, stay informed  

by risk management principles, and maintain 

the required attention to the potential risks 

they pose to the environment. The continuous 

evolution of the digital vehicle, the expansion  

of the vehicle ecosystem, and the advent  

of autonomous driving capabilities will 

inevitably continue to elevate cybersecurity and 

privacy concerns to another level of complexity 

and risk. Cybersecurity and data protection 

must be part of our comprehensive corporate 

governance plan, ensuring the effective 

management of digital risks by continuously 

assessing and monitoring evolving threats 

and the regulatory landscape. Fisker aligns its 

risk management system to the internationally 

recognized ISO27001 standard, which serves 

as the bedrock of our global cybersecurity and 

data protection policy. 

Our cybersecurity and data privacy 

governance structure is a priority at the 

highest levels of the company. The Fisker 

Board of Directors, CEO, and COO provide 

strategic oversight responsibilities for the 

program and risks. At the same time, the Chief 

Information Security Officer and an executive 

council monitor the next level of governance 

responsibilities. An enterprise cybersecurity 

management team drives cybersecurity 

Our state-of-the-art electric vehicle technology, 

and data protection functions across all 

including active safety, infotainment, and 

connectivity features, requires significant 

bandwidth and computing power. The 

areas of the business. This management 

team evaluates risk management programs, 

ensuring the protection of vehicle systems 

advanced electrical system architecture 

against unauthorized access, the protection  

enables in-vehicle technologies to run 

of business and customer data, the  

seamlessly and in conjunction with each other. 

readiness to respond to cybersecurity 

Cybersecurity is a core pillar of our Fisker 

incidents from the field, and the monitoring  

Ocean architecture, with protective features 

of cyber risk originating from the supply chain. 

PG.20

Fisker merchandise provides a look into our deeply embedded 
sustainability practices

•  83% of suppliers have efficient energy practices  

•  83% of materials are sourced within a 1000-mile radius  

•  50% of the product is bio-based and has a positive impact 

on the environment  

•  67% of the merchandise is made from a minimum of 60% 

recycled material  

•  50% of the suppliers prioritize EV and non-fossil fuel 

transportation  

•  67% have options for low impact packaging based on being 

re-usable, recycled content and bio-degradable  

•  100% of products follow ILO regulations  

•  100% of supplier material was either recycled, re-purposed 

or organic   

Photography owned by Fisker Inc.

PG.21

Fisker 
Products

"We plan to radically disrupt the mobility 

industry by setting an ambitious goal  

for ourselves: to produce a climate-neutral 

Life Cycle Analysis 

Henrik Fisker's commitment to beauty, 

innovation, and clean mobility drives every 

vehicle by 2027. We put people and the planet 

facet of business at Fisker Inc. To understand 

at the forefront of our mission, ensuring a clean 

our products' true environmental impact and 

future for all." — Henrik Fisker 

Production of the Fisker Ocean, our first vehicle, 

begins in November 2022. From sketch through 

to the first prototype, our values, purpose, and 

achieve a climate-neutral vehicle, Fisker will 

continuously analyze, study, measure, and 

innovate through all five phases of a vehicle  

life cycle. 

aspirational goals dominate our conversations 

Fisker-Flexible Platform Adaptive Design 

and actions.  

“At Fisker, striving for innovation in sustainability is 

what we stand for. It is not only a brand strategy;  
it is why we exist. In Engineering, we are constantly 
looking to improve the efficiency of our vehicles. 
We analyze the entire vehicle and materials 
manufacturing process to preserve the vehicle and 
its contents for as long as possible because how it’s 
made matters. 

  We understand it is not just what we create and how 
our products perform but also the raw materials and 
what happens to them when we are finished. This 
is the full life-cycle approach, and we will always 
strive to be the best and radically change the 
industry for the lightest footprint possible.
—

“ 

  Burkhard Huhnke, Chief Technology Officer 

(FF-PAD) compels continuous improvements 

across critical areas of product development. 

These include minimizing the Bill of Materials 

(BOM), developing emission-free products  

with finished goods suppliers, maximizing 

rail and electric-powered transport use, and 

reducing combustion and energy intensity  

in recycling. Fisker is working closely  

with manufacturing partner Magna to support 

this initiative.

Our Fisker Ocean life cycle analysis is informed by environmental management frameworks, such as ISO 14040, ISO 14044, and ISO 14067. 

Considerations within each phase of the life 

cycle analysis are discussed. We will release 

calculation results in 2023 to inform our 

progress towards our aspirational goal of a 

climate-neutral vehicle by 2027. Planning for the 

climate-neutral vehicle is ongoing, and we will 

publish more details later in 2022.

"We applaud this lifecycle commitment," — 
The Carbon Collective 

PG.22

Upstream Materials Sourcing 

1.
2. Manufacturing / Production 
3.
4.
5.

Product Use

Inbound / Outbound Logistics

End of Life Recycling and Reuse

1. Upstream Materials Sourcing  

Choosing Suppliers  

Fisker carefully chooses high-quality, like-minded partners to reach our 

vision. We set expectations through our Responsible Supplier Policy. 

Suppliers moving forward have agreed to this policy, along with annual 

adherence verification. 

“We will strive to use the least water and yield the lowest emissions in our supply chain, materials, and processes. We commit to following a path of continual improvement through scientific measurement, audit processes, and meaningful targets. We expect our suppliers to commit to these same values and help us to achieve the lightest footprint on our planet."

—Responsible Supplier Policy 

We recognize the challenges of producing and delivering products 

without greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. 

The supply chains of our suppliers and logistics partners may contain offsets to achieve climate neutrality. Fisker will not purchase offsets, and our goal is to utilize only climate-neutral materials in our products and use only climate-neutral services to support our business.

PG.23



We pre-qualify our suppliers through a sustainability filter that identifies those organizations meeting a series of criteria from the International Material Database System (IMDS), a global standard in collecting, maintaining, analyzing, and archiving all materials used for manufacturing automobiles.

ESG is present within supplier contracts. Where possible, 

localization is prioritized, with most suppliers within 1,000 km of production. 

Our production collaboration with Magna provides a notable example 

of our ESG ethos. Magna provides both engineering and tech-forward 

innovation to production, and its production facilities are run with 100% 

green electricity.

Magna sets an example for creative ingenuity and a sustainable mindset by mapping and tracking its water use and re-use carefully. Water efficiency and responsible discharge can be attributed to processes within production for a clearer footprint. 

Choosing Materials  

Fisker intends to live its values, including in material selection. In future 

years, we will be required to report certain conflict mineral usage  

through government channels. Well ahead of this requirement, our mission 

drives us to collect information from suppliers concerning the country  

of origin and chain of custody of conflict materials. In addition to the US 

State Department recognized conflict materials of tungsten, tin, tantalum, 

and gold, Fisker also recognizes cobalt. We would like to lead in the 

electric vehicle space and source without benefiting armed groups  

in conflict countries. Fisker follows the Responsible Mining Initiative  

along with standards for survey and responsible chain of custody 

practices. We will begin reporting to the US Security and Exchange 

Commission next year. 

Fisker teams consider materials from a series of criteria: quality, recyclability, expense, contribution to carbon footprint, performance,  and appearance. Materials engineers review and analyze each part to identify where products could be lighter, have purer materials for recyclability at end-of-use, and lessen impact on the environment. 

An internal research study shows that efforts focused on reducing mass and carbon footprint of materials will return a significant reduction in overall carbon emissions for the life cycle of a vehicle. The Fisker Ocean will have more than 50 kg of recycled polymers and biobased materials.

PG.24

2. Manufacturing/Production 

Fisker Ocean production in Graz, Austria is planned for November 2022 

through collaboration with Magna in a carbon-neutral facility powered 

by electricity sourced from 100% renewable energy. An additional 

photovoltaic energy source will be dedicated to Fisker production. 

Magna teams have diligently identified Fisker Ocean processes and are isolating data to provide water and energy usage. Magna will support Fisker in reporting Scopes 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions. 

Before 

the first Fisker Ocean rolls off the production line, 14 UN SDG-aligned key 

performance indicator topics across environmental and social factors 

have been set: 

Manufacturing and 
Production

Engineering

CSR

GHG emissions (13)

Carbon Footprint (13)

Employee Satisfaction (8)

Water Efﬁciency (13)

Recyclables (12)

Diversity & Inclusion (10)

Waste Diversion (12)

Vehicle Recycling Rate (12)

Health & Safety (3)

 Hazardous/Non-Hazardous 
Waste (12)

Energy Efﬁciency (7)

Renewable Energy (7)

4Rs – Reduce, Reuse, 
Recycle, Recover (12)

Ergonomics (3)

3. Inbound/Outbound Logistics 

Fisker works to localize manufacturing with inbound materials, plans  

to maximize rail and electric-power transport, and challenges  

logistics partners to support the aspirational goal to create a  

climate-neutral vehicle. 

4. Product Use

Our first step toward developing a climate-neutral vehicle is the  

Fisker Ocean, an all-electric SUV featuring SolarSky, a rooftop solar  

panel supplementing battery power. SolarSky can add up to 1,500 miles  

of range annually, enhancing the Fisker Ocean's 250-350 mile  

per charge range. 

PG.25



In addition to meeting environmental and safety standards in the EU, US, and China, the company will submit the Fisker Ocean for a Green NCAP certification in 2022. Green NCAP is an independent initiative promoting the development of cars that are clean, energy-efficient, and not harmful to the environment. 

Green NCAP aims to improve the air quality 

we breathe, maximize the use of resources used for passenger 

transportation, and reduce global warming.

5. End of Use

Fisker considers a vehicle's end-of-life well before production.  

Through meticulous consideration of materials and further refined through its engineering study, Fisker has parts that are bio-based, mono-based, and free of paint where possible, made of clean material for recyclability without compromising the high-end aesthetic and vehicle safety and capability. 

Case Study: Materials Engineering Study 

The Fisker approach to continuous improvement is obsessive. Engineers conducted a materials 

analysis striving for the perfect balance of sustainability, safety, quality, and cost. Key closure 

components and the "body-in-white" (manufacturing stage when the vehicle frame has been fused, 

before paint or parts) were analyzed to find an optimal material mix, including recycled materials 

and mass. Results identified significant potential for reducing carbon footprint and will prompt a 

future reengineering toward reaching our aspiration to create a carbon-neutral vehicle. Learnings 

from this study will reduce the “body-in-white" and overall mass of the Fisker PEAR, the second 

vehicle from Fisker expected to begin production in 2024.    

Material

FM29 Steel/Aluminum Mix
(Baseline; 10% recycled content*)

Aluminum
(10% recycled content*)

Aluminum 
(50% recycled content)

Steel
(10% recycled content*)

Steel 
(50% recycled content)

FM29 Steel/Aluminum Mix
(10% recycled content*)

Material 
CFP***
(kg CO2/kg)

Raw Material 
Cost
($/kg)

ΔModule CFP

ΔVehicle CFP

11.0

18.0

12.0

5.0

3.8

10.8

--

--

--

+50%

+63%

+12%

+74%

-45%

+11%

-56%

-39%

-64%

0

-25%

+2%

-10%

-12%

-5%

PG.26

Material

FM29 Steel/Aluminum Mix
(10% recycled content*)

Optimized** Steel 
(50% recycled content)

ΔMass 
Reduction 
Target

Material CFP
(kg CO2/kg)

Raw Material 
Cost
($/kg)

ΔModule 
CFP

ΔVehicle 
CFP

-25%

-25%

10.8

3.8

0

-25%

-39%

-73%

-5%

-13%

*Automotive-grade metals typically contain between 5-10% recycled material 

**Based on competitive benchmarking of other OEMs (track, width, wheel base) 

***Carbon Footprint, derived from Ecoinvent 3.7.1 datasets 

Calculations based on: 

•  400 kg body-in-white, typical for a vehicle of similar size and type 

•  Body-in-white carbon footprint from production expected to represent 18% of overall PEAR 

vehicle carbon footprint 

•  Baseline material mix assumed to be 53% Steel; 47% Aluminum by mass 

Material Substitution Findings 

• 

Incorporating steel with 50% recycled content will yield the highest reduction in the body-in-

white’s CFP, thereby reducing PEAR’s overall CFP by 12%

• 

Incorporating aluminum with 10% recycled content will yield the highest increase in the body-in-

white’s CFP, thereby increasing PEAR’s overall CFP by 12%  

Mass Reduction Findings 

•  Reducing the body-in-white’s mass by 25% will reduce the body-in-white’s CFP by 25%,  

thereby decreasing PEAR’s overall CFP by 5%  

Overall 

•  Reducing the body-in-white’s mass by 25% AND incorporating steel with 50% recycled content 

will yield a 73% reduction in the body-in-white’s CFP, thereby reducing PEAR’s overall CFP by 13%

PG.27

 
Additional 
Information

About this Report  

This is the inaugural Fisker Inc., (NYSE: FSR) ESG Impact Report covering calendar year 2021,  

with special updates according to the date of publication in 2022. Reporting aligns with the 

Sustainable Accounting Standards Board (SASB) disclosures with a full table at the end of this 

report. Fisker will not seek assurance for this report. 

Fisker welcomes input from stakeholders on ESG strategy, activity, and reporting. If you have 

questions or comments, please contact Patrick Newsom, Fisker’s Director of ESG,  

at pnewsom@fiskerinc.com

ESG Alignment   

•  Sustainable Accounting Standards Board (SASB)  

•  United National Global Compact Signatory and participant  

•  UN Sustainable Development Goals alignment  

Awards & Recognition  

•  ZEVA Award  

Certifications  

•  Los Angeles Green Business Certification (Awarded)  

•  San Francisco Green Business Certification (Awarded)  

Policies 

•  Code of Conduct and Whistleblower Statement  

•  Diversity Policy  

•  Environmental Policy  

•  Engagement Statement  

•  Labor and Human Rights Policy  

•  Product Safety Disclosure  

•  Responsible Supplier Policy

PG.28

Sustainable Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Table

Accounting Metric

Disclosure

Product Safety

•  Metrics on the percentage of vehicle models rated  

•  First production planned for November 2022 

by NCAP programs with an overall 5-star safety rating 

Safety testing is in progress

by region 

•  Metrics on (1) number of safety-related defect 

•  First production planned for November 2022

complaints and (2) percentage investigated

•  Metrics on the number of vehicles recalled 

•  First production planned for November 2022

Labor Practices 

•  Metrics on the percentage of active workforce 

• 

In 2021, we did not have any collective  

covered under collective bargaining agreements

bargaining agreements in our Fisker-owned and 

•  Metrics on (1) number of work stoppages and (2) total 

•  Fisker does not have any idle days or work 

days idle

stoppages due to labor issues within our  

own operations

operated facilities

Fuel Economy 

•  Sales-weighted average passenger fleet fuel 

•  First production planned for November 2022

and Use-Phase 

economy by region

Emissions

•  Metrics on the number of (1) zero-emission vehicles 

(1)  Fisker first production of Fisker Ocean will be all-

(ZEV), (2) hybrid vehicles, and (3) plug-in hybrid 

electric vehicles

vehicles sold

(2)  Every Fisker vehicle, including its first product, the 

Fisker Ocean, will be all-electric and zero-emissions

(3)  Every Fisker vehicle, including its first product, the 

Fisker Ocean, will be all-electric and zero-emissions

•  Discussion of strategy for managing fleet fuel 

•  Reference to FF-PAD and LCA planning

economy and emissions risks and opportunities

Materials Sourcing

•  Discussion of the management of risks associated 

•  Conflict Materials Policy 

with the use of critical materials

•  Responsible Supplier Policy

Materials Efficiency 

•  Metrics on (1) total amount of waste from 

(1)  Production planned for November 2022; production 

and Recycling

manufacturing and (2) percentage recycled

waste will be reported upon production

•  Metrics on (1) weight of end-of-life material recovered 

(1)  Production planned for November 2022; We design 

(2)  Production planned for November 2022; recyclate  

in materials will be reported upon production

and (2) percentage recycled

the vehicle, source parts, and implement strategies  

with appropriate end-of-life partners to ensure that 

the vehicle is 85% recyclable and 95% recoverable, 

per EU ELV Directive

(2)  Production planned for November 2022; We design 

the vehicle, source parts, and implement strategies  

with appropriate end-of-life partners to ensure that 

the vehicle is 85% recyclable and 95% recoverable, 

per EU ELV Directive

•  Metrics on average recyclability of vehicles sold

•  Production planned for November 2022

Activity Metrics

•  Number of vehicles manufactured

•  Production planned for November 2022

•  Number of vehicles sold

•  Production planned for November 2022

PG.29

United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Communication on Progress

CEO Statement

References

A statement by the Chief Executive expressing continued support 

Henrik Fisker letter within this ESG Impact Report, PG 3

for the UN Global Compact and renewing the participant's ongoing 

commitment to the initiative

Human Rights 

1.   Businesses should support and respect the protection  

Labor and Human Rights Policy released in 2021

of internationally proclaimed human rights, and

Responsible Supplier Policy publicly released in 2021

2.  Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 

Labor and Human Rights Policy released in 2021

Responsible Supplier Policy publicly released in 2021

Labor

3.  Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the 

Labor and Human Rights Policy released in 2021

effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 

Responsible Supplier Policy publicly released in 2021

4.  The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; 

Labor and Human Rights Policy released in 2021

Responsible Supplier Policy publicly released in 2021

5.  The effective abolition of child labor; and

Labor and Human Rights Policy released in 2021

Responsible Supplier Policy publicly released in 2021

6.  The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and 

Labor and Human Rights Policy released in 2021

occupation. 

Environment

Responsible Supplier Policy publicly released in 2021

7.  Businesses should support a precautionary approach  

Environmental Policy released in 2022

to environmental challenges; 

8.  Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental 

Environmental Policy released in 2022

responsibility; and 

9.  Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally 

Environmental Policy released in 2022

friendly technologies.

Anti-Corruption 

10.  Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, 

The Anti-Corruption Policy is an internal policy and is part of our 

including extortion and bribery. 

annual review and update

PG.30

Fisker Inc.
Manhattan Beach  
Headquarters 
Inception

Fisker Inc.
San Francisco 
R&D Center 
Source Code

Fisker Inc.
1888 Rosecrans Avenue
Manhattan Beach, CA 
90266 United States
fiskerinc.com

Patrick Newsom,  
Director, ESG
pnewsom@fiskerinc.com

Rebecca Lindland,  
Director, Communications
rlindland@fiskerinc.com

Photography owned by Fisker Inc.

PG.31

Copyright  © 2022 Fisker Inc. All rights reserved.

