 Item 1. Business. Our Vision A clean future for all. Our Mission Create the world’s most emotional and sustainable vehicles. Overview We are building a technology-enabled, capital-light automotive business model that we believe will be among the first of its kind and aligned with the future state of the automotive industry. This involves innovations in vehicle development, customer experience, and sales and service that improve the personal mobility experience through technological innovation, ease of use and flexibility. Fisker brings the legendary design and product development expertise of Henrik Fisker – the visionary behind such iconic vehicles as the BMW Z8 sports car and the famed Aston Martin DB9 and V8 Vantage – to deliver high quality, sustainable, affordable electric vehicles that create a strong emotional connection with customers. Central to our business model is the Fisker Flexible Platform Agnostic Design (“FF-PAD”), a proprietary process that allows the design and development of a vehicle to be adapted to any given EV platform in the specific segment size. The process focuses on creating industry leading vehicle designs that can be adapted to match the crucial hard points on an EV platform initially developed by a third-party. This, combined with rapid decision-making, focused supply chain management and outsourced manufacturing, reduces development cost and time to market, creating a new business model for the industry and one that gives Fisker a significant advantage in bringing vehicles to market faster, more efficiently, and with more modern and advanced technology than many competitors. Our first model, the all-electric Fisker Ocean, has already garnered many awards for its design and is projected to start of production in November 2022. Through February 14, 2022, Fisker has received over 30,000 retail reservations, net of cancellations, and 1,600 fleet reservations. 4 Index to Financial Statements The Fisker Ocean is an all-electric SUV and targets the large and rapidly expanding “premium with volume” segment (meaning a premium automaker producing more than 100,000 units of a single model, such as the BMW 3 Series or Tesla Model 3) of the SUV market. The Fisker Ocean is a five-passenger vehicle with a range, depending on specification, of between 250 and a class-leading 350-miles. Advanced electric powertrain technology, state-of-the-art advanced driving assistance system capabilities, and several industry-first features, combined with an innovative and timeless design, are delivered through advanced software-based user interface enabling a totally re-imagined customer experience. We have designed the Ocean for a high degree of sustainability, using recycled rubber, eco-suede interior trim made from recycled polyester, and carpeting from fishing nets and bottles recycled from ocean waste, among many other sustainable features. We have also designed the Fisker Ocean for affordability. The well-equipped Fisker Ocean Sport is expected to price in the U.S. starting at $37,499 for customers who want to purchase the vehicle, or a flexible lease model (instead of a traditional fixed-term lease) starting at $379 per month. The all-wheel drive Fisker Ocean Ultra, with expected U.S. pricing starting at $49,999, is expected to deliver class-leading range of 340 miles (based on internal simulations; EPA testing will be forthcoming) and many compelling features. Overall,we believe Fisker Ocean is positioned as a highly competitive and affordable all-electric SUV delivering premium styling and features. Our goal is to revolutionize how customers view personal mobility and vehicle ownership. We plan to employ an innovative “E-Mobility-as-a-Service” (“EMaaS”) business model that combines a customer-focused, seamless buying experience with available flexible leasing options that carry affordable monthly payments and no fixed term. We plan a go-to-market strategy with both web-and app-based digital sales, loan financing approvals, leasing, and service management tools with limited reliance on traditional physical “sales-and-service” dealer networks. Prospective customers would be able to “touch and feel” the vehicles at immersive Fisker Experience Centers, which we anticipate will initially be located in key strategic locations across the United States and Europe. These centers will utilize dynamic augmented and virtual reality for customers to experience the vehicles, their technology, and sustainability features. Fisker believes that this customer-focused approach will drive user engagement in our products, brand and technology, and result in positive customer experiences. Such customer satisfaction, Fisker believes, should result in brand loyalty. Through our FF-PAD proprietary process combined with rapid product development decision-making and an intense focus on supply chain management, we intend to significantly reduce the capital intensity and investments typically associated with a new car manufacturing business, accelerate the development cycle of new products, and accelerate the adoption of advanced technology in several ways, including: • Launching with a highly respected brand name in the automotive and EV categories. The Fisker name is a recognized part of automotive industry history and has established premium EV brand value in the global EV marketplace. Henrik Fisker, Fisker’s co-founder, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, is a pioneer in the EV industry, having launched the world’s first luxury plug-in hybrid EV, and has a track record of successful designs as the former Chief Executive Officer and President of BMW Designworks USA and the former Design Director for Aston Martin. We enter the market with an established brand name that is associated with automotive innovation and superior design. • Using an existing EV Platform. We have entered into a cooperation agreement with Magna International Inc. (“Magna”), an industry-leading supplier, technology partner and manufacturer of premium high-quality vehicles. The cooperation agreement sets out the main terms and conditions for certain operational agreements related to platform sharing, component sourcing and manufacturing for the Fisker Ocean. We are creating FM29, a unique EV platform, that will have unique Fisker intellectual property. By working with a proven contract manufacturer such as Magna Steyr, we can accelerate our time to market, reduce vehicle development costs, and gain access to an established global supply chain. Our proprietary FF-PAD process is hardware agnostic which will enable us to collaborate with multiple EV platform developers for the production of future vehicles and develop rapid derivatives and improvements to our current FM29 Platform. Since the inception of our cooperation agreement, we have added significant certified content and tailored the FM29 platform into a proprietary Fisker platform where we can leverage our intellectual property and technology for certain systems and subsystems in future vehicles and will increase efficiency in vehicle development and speed to bring vehicles to market. • Using an existing manufacturing facility. We are leveraging contract manufacturers with existing modern manufacturing facilities and trained workforce, which positions us well to meet timing, cost, and quality expectations while optimally matching our cost structure with our projected production ramp. Partnering with Magna on manufacturing is intended to position us to meet our projected production and delivery targets and 5 Index to Financial Statements will enable us to focus on what we believe will be the key differentiators for a new car company: delivering truly innovative design features, a superior customer experience, and a leading user interface that leverages sophisticated software and other technology advancements. • Developing a digitally-driven, hassle-free sales and service experience. We believe that our digital, direct-to-customer sales model reflects today’s changing customer preferences and is superior to “traditional” capital intensive and costly automotive sales models. Our proprietary Flexee App will enable vehicle configuration, seamless digital sales and vehicle delivery. We also intend to enter into a service partnership with third parties established North American and European service partners to create a hassle-free, app-based service experience for our customers. Fisker Flexible Platform Adaptive Design (FF-PAD) and FM29 Platform We have entered into a Non-Exclusive Car Platform Sharing Agreement with a Magna International subsidiary from which we have developed Fisker’s proprietary FM29 Platform which Fisker may use on several global vehicle models including Ocean and PEAR. Engaging in collaboration and partnership arrangements is intended to enable us to share investments made by industry-leading OEMs and tier-one automotive suppliers, allowing us to focus on creating value beyond basic engineering and customer expectations. We believe this platform-sharing arrangement will reduce delivery risk by eliminating factors such as the development of new and untested manufacturing processes and creation of new supply chains. The critical elements of platform (also referred to as a “skateboard”) we plan to adopt may include, for example, the sheet metal structure for the floor plan of the vehicle, the electrical powertrain, the suspension, steering and braking systems, airbags, seatbelts, and other architectural elements such as seat frames. The implicit functionality provided by the platform/skateboard reduces the task of satisfying all of the requirements associated with high-and-low-speed crashworthiness, side impacts and roof crush, occupant injury, and pedestrian safety, among others, to one of system tuning. Similarly, durability, noise, vibration, and harshness performance become optimizing exercises where we take an already highly developed product and improve in those areas that are important to our customers. Alongside the FF-PAD, we intend to focus our design and engineering process on improving the flow of information from customer demands, to design and engineering: • Sales and marketing: identify target customers and the customer’s demands for specific vehicle types • Vehicle engineering: translate customer demand into a full technical specification of the vehicle, describing every attribute in quantifiable terms (SI units or Vehicle Evaluation Rating) • Design: deliver the visual aesthetic with a unique emotional attraction • Engineering: translate the technical and aesthetic specifications into engineered components and subsystems to deliver a fully optimized, compatible final product The fulcrum of this process is the Vehicle Architecture (“VA”) team. The VA team is placed at the center of the flow of information from these branches of the business and is tasked with balancing the conflicting requirements and arbitrating between business groups to achieve consensus. Fisker’s Manufacturing Approach We decided to seek out partnerships with existing manufacturers rather than constructing new production capacity. On June 12, 2021, w executed a binding Contract Manufacturing Agreement with Magna Steyr Fahrzeugtechnik AG & Co KG (“Magna Steyr”) for manufacture of the Fisker Ocean and on May 13, 2021 entered into Project PEAR Cooperation Framework Agreement with AFE, Inc. (a US subsidiary of Foxconn Technology Group) which contemplates that Fisker and Foxconn will enter into a contract manufacturing agreement for manufacture of the Fisker PEAR in the United States. This contract manufacturing approach is intended to lower our upfront costs, while also supporting our ESG mission by reducing the carbon footprint of our operations. A significant advantage of working with established manufacturing partners is that such enterprises are already connected to the existing automotive supply chain. The maturity of supply chain relationships is critical, and is reflected in the connectivity of business systems and IT infrastructure. A typical vehicle consists of over 5,000 individual parts and assemblies, each of which is sourced from an extended supply chain consisting of thousands of suppliers. Compounding 6 Index to Financial Statements this further is the fact that there is complexity in the vehicle build specifications to suit customer choice. These parts must be delivered to the final point of assembly at a rate and in a sequence that matches planned vehicle production. Considering that a typical automotive facility will assemble these more than 5,000 parts into a complete vehicle at a rate of one vehicle every 45-120 seconds, the smooth running of that logistics effort becomes critical to the running of the operation. Such organizational efficiency is the result of decades of experience and cannot be easily replicated. These critical relationships extend beyond the simple supply of parts and into areas such as local government, where support and cooperation is vital to ensure that local infrastructure updates are considered at a strategic local government level. Such partnerships are also decades in the making, and are critical to the ongoing success of the enterprise. Growth Strategy We intend to implement the following growth strategies to drive stakeholder value. • Continue to develop the Fisker Ocean. We are investing in research and development and work on establishing partnerships that would enable us to commence customer deliveries of the Fisker Ocean as early as late 2022. We believe that we can achieve this goal by using an established platform, parts sourcing and the manufacturing advantages resulting from the collaboration with Magna, as well as the deep automobile design and execution experience of our management team. As part of this plan, we began building prototype, pre-production Fisker Oceans in 2021 within Magna’s manufacturing facilities. • Re-imagine the customer experience for personal transportation and car ownership. We believe immense opportunities exist to re-imagine the customer experience for personal transportation and car ownership. We plan to continue to design EVs that will be differentiated in the marketplace by proprietary design innovation and a customer experience delivered through a state-of-the-art, software-based UI. We plan to also continue to develop our proprietary Flexee App to improve the customer experience throughout the entire personal transportation lifecycle. In addition, we are designing our EVs to be compatible with existing charging infrastructures, including ChargePoint and EVgo, as well as Electrify America, with whom we have executed a network program charging agreement. • Develop additional high value, sustainable EV models. We believe the combination of our superior design expertise, along with the power and versatility of platforms engineered with industry-leading OEMs and tier-one automotive suppliers, will enable us to efficiently achieve our goal of providing the world with a range of high value, sustainable EVs. We intend to utilize one or more platforms over time to develop a lifestyle pickup truck and a sport crossover to complement the Fisker Ocean. In addition, in the future, we also plan to explore additional EV platform opportunities that will facilitate the company’s mission to revolutionize the personal transportation industry. 7 Index to Financial Statements Fisker’s Vehicles 8 Index to Financial Statements Our first vehicle will be the Fisker Ocean, an all-electric premium SUV that is expected to have a starting base price of $37,499 in the U.S. market before federal and state incentives are applied (we expect to initiate sales with all of our currently allocated EV credits – $7,500 on the first 200,000 delivered vehicles). The Ocean will have at least three option packages, with base prices anticipated to range from $37,499 (Fisker Ocean Sport) to approximately $68,899 (Fisker Ocean Extreme and limited-edition Fisker Ocean One) for the most highly-contented trim level. This allows customers with different preferences and means to find a vehicle and price that fits their needs. We revealed these option packages at the Los Angeles Auto Show in November 2021. Based on our internal simulations, we believe the electric range of the Fisker Ocean will span 250 to over 350 miles, depending on the customer’s chosen battery pack, driving conditions and testing procedures (e.g., EPA cycle vs. WLTP cycle). We believe our software engineers have the ability to optimize the vehicles’ proprietary battery management system and other technical aspects of the battery system to potentially offer potentially longer-range versions. The company's industry-leading basic warranty of six years, 100,000 kilometers; powertrain warranty of 10 years, 160,000 kilometers; and battery warranty of 10 years, 160,000 kilometers (whichever comes first in all cases) will be supported by service centers throughout the region. For service, the company is offering at-home vehicle pick-up, or Fisker Mobile Service, for customers who prefer skilled technicians come to them. The Fisker Ocean warranty also includes corrosion coverage and roadside assistance. The Fisker Ocean has many selling points that will set Fisker apart from its competitors, including: • California Mode. California Mode (patent-pending) delivers an open-air experience with the push of one button. California Mode enables all of the vehicle’s windows – side windows, sunroof and the rear hatch window – to open simultaneously. This feature allows for long items (like a surfboard) to be transported by placing them through the rear window without having to drive with an open hatch. This feature will not work as well on an ICE vehicle as exhaust fumes could enter the cabin. 9 Index to Financial Statements • Extra wide track. For the size of the vehicle and category, We believe the Ocean’s extra wide track will, among other technical features, give the Ocean best-in-class ride and handling while maintaining the same tire aspect ratios. The wide track on sports cars contribute to a visual powerful “stance,” and we believe this will further distinguish the Ocean’s design. It has also allowed for a more dramatically sculptured body side design and, combined with the dynamic silhouette, we believe it has achieved a class-leading aesthetically arresting and emotional design. • Fixed hood. Major electronic components have been moved under the hood to increase the interior space. The Ocean therefore does not need a traditional opening hood, where extra cost is spent on hinges and seals. This means the Ocean has fewer cut lines in the front end of the car, simplifying the design. • User Interface. The Ocean features a revolve screen with integrated haptic buttons. We have done extensive design development on the highest quality UI to enhance the driving experience. We believe combining a large touch screen with several haptic buttons provides drivers a user-friendly interface that allows drivers to access the most-often-used functions while maintaining their eyes on the road. • Autonomy. We believe autonomous driving technology will ultimately be regulated, produced in high volume by a few large automotive companies, and be available to everyone. We believe it will be able to offer state-of-the-art autonomous driving features through a partnership with industry-leading OEMs and tier-one automotive suppliers. The Ocean will be launched with Fisker Intelligent (FI) Pilot, which will deliver industry-unique features and experiences, including over-the-air updates. The Ocean will be engineered with hardware to support future upgrades, higher levels of autonomy and advanced driver assistance features, delivered through post-production software-based updates. Fisker and Magna are working together to develop an industry-unique feature set and a suite of software packages powered by a scalable domain controller architecture. We intend to equip Fisker Ocean with a class-competitive suite of Advanced Driving Assistance features supported by a sensor suite that includes state-of-the-art computer vision technology and digital imaging radar. • Solar roof. The Fisker brand is a pioneer in full length curved solar roof design and integration into a passenger vehicle. We believe that we can continue this leadership and will be providing an optional solar roof with state-of-the-art PV solar cells. The solar roof makes a strong personal statement for those customers that want to fully optimize for zero emissions and sustainability. • Vegan interior. We are planning to offer a full vegan interior on the Fisker Ocean and there will be no leather or animal sourced materials available on any Fisker Ocean model. • Recycled materials in the interior. Fisker plans to introduce carpets made from recycled plastic bottles and fishing nets from the world’s oceans. We are also looking at introducing several other recycled materials throughout the Fisker Ocean. • Sustainability. We aim to make the Fisker Ocean the world’s most sustainable vehicle, measured by how many components use recycled materials, the fact that we offer a full-length solar roof option, and the fact that we plan on using existing manufacturing capacity rather than building new plants. In addition, we will work with all of our suppliers to try to make them use the most sustainable manufacturing methods possible. Fisker has plans to introduce three more vehicles by 2025 using an established-platform-sharing arrangement with one or more industry-leading OEMs and suppliers. New electronics architecture The Fisker Ocean electronics architecture is based around a small number of key domain controllers, for advanced driver assistance functions, drivetrain and battery management, and infotainment. A traditional vehicle electronics architecture typically contains a high number of independent and self-contained modules, each a black box to the rest of the car. This architecture, based on domain computers, opens new avenues for integration, sensor fusion, and an adaptive and evolving user experience. A connectivity module enables full communication with the Fisker cloud and the possibility for edge computing, while over-the-air (“OTA”) software updates ensure the in-car experience can stay ahead of market expectations. 10 Index to Financial Statements We anticipate that future generations of Fisker architecture will integrate automotive requirements into customized electronics chips and boards, with hardware accelerators for AI, machine-learning, and computer-vision. This further reduction in electronics component counts is designed to lower power consumption, increase computational power, and allow for even greater scope for feature integration and optimization. Digital car of the future: delivered over the air The new electric, digital car is more technologically sophisticated than its predecessors. Many immediate benefits to the customer of this always-online car will be evident in the infotainment system. Entertainment and productivity apps, mobility services, and navigation aids can keep pace with the latest regional trends. The integrated and fully connected nature of the digital car opens new opportunities for innovation, and enables functions previously impossible, such as predictive maintenance and remote fault diagnosis. Through edge computing and ultra-low latency 5G connectivity, it also becomes possible for cloud computing resources to be used as a seamless extension of the computing power in the car. Continuous software updates, both for embedded systems in the car and functions hosted in the cloud, let the digital car grow and become smarter over its lifetime. It’s critical for Fisker Engineering to follow automotive ISO standards. In general, Fisker automotive design is meeting all functional safety requirements outlined by ISO 26262 and SO/SAE 21434 which covers security management, and cybersecurity within the Fisker product development lifecycle. E-powertrain We intend to utilize software to improve the powertrain performance, making the cars more efficient, allowing more instantaneous power output, or improving the charging experience. For example, powertrain parameters could be tailored to each driver in real time, based on driving habits, traffic density, road geometry, and environmental conditions. The optimal characteristics of the motors could be constantly measured and altered, and the level of the recuperation system could be adjusted in real time. On-board diagnostics, combined with predictive models and anomaly detection could guide the customer to schedule a service appointment before they even perceive any symptoms, possibly averting a costly repair. UX/UI We expect that our EVs will always be “connected.” Our next-generation connectivity platform will enable the seamless integration of online services and functions, whether unique Fisker services or from third parties. Features that are 11 Index to Financial Statements visualized on the large center touchscreen or digital instrument cluster will meet strict driver-distraction guidelines and will be rendered in high resolution through Fisker’s custom UI framework. The leading-edge head-up display will project useful information onto the windshield so the driver’s eyes never need to leave the road. The Flexee App seamlessly connects to the car, ensuring the customer’s digital life and driving experience meet in the car. With data analysis, cloud computing, and OTA updates, we expect the in-car experience will adapt over time to the driver, not the other way around as has traditionally been the case. Sales—Go To Market Strategy We believe over the next seven years, the U.S. and E.U. EV market will be broken down into three fundamental segments: the white space segment, the value segment and the conservative premium segment. All three segments will attract customers from traditional ICE vehicles, but the largest growth, by volume, will be the white space segment and the value segment. EV Segment Attributes of Segment Fisker Plan within Segment White space segment Currently occupied by Tesla globally and by a few Chinese EV independent start-ups operating in China only. Appeals to customers who want to be part of the new EV movement, who value sustainability and ESG. Can only be occupied by pure EV brands that only produce EVs with a clear commitment towards zero emission vehicles. We believe we will be the primary alternative to Tesla in this segment with the Fisker Ocean priced around the base price of the Tesla Model 3 and Model Y. We believe other EV startups will move into the higher premium priced segments due to the lack of volume pricing of components. We expect to sell approximately 50% of its vehicles into this segment. Value segment Focus on price and value proposition—customers will buy vehicles in this segment when the purchase price and cost of maintaining/running fits the budget and is better than an ICE vehicle. Yet to be dominated by any auto maker. We believe it will penetrate the upper end of this segment by offering a compelling and differentiated price/ performance vehicle, compared to other traditional car makers struggling to compete due to lack of volume pricing. We expect to sell approximately 10% of its vehicles into this segment. Conservative premium segment Emerging segment currently occupied by several traditional auto makers that are trying to keep their own customers from deflecting to new start up EV makers like Tesla. Vehicles in this segment, produced by the traditional premium automakers, are struggling with a clear EV identity as they try to bridge the traditional ICE attributes with new EV attributes. We believe our vehicles will be very attractive to customers sitting “on the fence” in this segment, ready to leave their ICE brand, but needing assurance of quality and reliability. This is a segment where we believe we can attract new customers that will come from traditional ICE brands. We believe we will sell approximately 40% of our vehicles into this segment, but it will grow rapidly, as we will be able to offer a more emotional design, an exclusive EV brand, a larger battery and better equipment for the price due to our volume pricing versus the lower volume traditional brands 12 Index to Financial Statements Service, Marketing and Insurance Our co-founder Henrik Fisker’s reputation, our collaboration with Magna and our roll-out of the Fisker Ocean generated significant media coverage of the company and its vehicles, and we expect brand awareness to expand with the achievement of each major company milestone. Media coverage and word-of-mouth have been the primary drivers of Fisker’s sales leads, helping us achieve a high volume of reservations without traditional marketing efforts and with a relatively low marketing budget. We plan to continue to expand its social media presence as a key part of our marketing efforts in future periods. Additionally, Mr. Fisker intends to increase his personal engagement on social media in order to make potential customers feel they hear directly from our founder’s “voice.” In addition, we plan to attend global events and open Fisker Experience Centers to give the opportunity for more potential buyers to experience its vehicles. We are also planning a distinctive new customer rewards program and a unique customer retention engagement program. We intend to offer a combination of third-party insurance and self-insurance mechanisms to our customers to provide for insurance against certain risks, including auto liability and physical damage, general liability and products liability. Direct Sales and Service We intend to market and will sell our vehicles directly to customers using our proprietary digital platforms, including the Flexee App and website. This digital approach allows us to collect prospective customer data and improve the overall customer experience. We have designed our digital customer interactive platforms to be both cost effective and increase the value proposition and competitiveness of our vehicles. We believe we will be able to quickly build our brand on a global scale and retain our future customers through direct customer interaction. In addition, we plan to launch a unique “miles”-style retention program, which will include awards where our reservation holders and future customers can generate points that can be converted into money or put towards the purchase or lease of a vehicle. This program is a unique rewards program that resembles successful programs used in other non-automotive industries. We are also planning to offer both financing and insurance of our vehicles directly through its digital platforms. We believe we can reduce the total cost of ownership for our customers and potentially generate additional sources of revenue by providing both financing and insurance for its vehicles. We plan to keep introducing new direct-to-customer programs and services to further define our customer experience. As described elsewhere, we also plan to keep Fisker’s lean sales, lease, and service model in order to be able to continue to offer great value to its customers regardless of the segment we enter. Vehicle Maintenance An important element of vehicle ownership to consumers is maintenance and servicing. We plan to offer a new approach to service that will result in less required infrastructure, higher efficiency, and significantly higher customer satisfaction. Through consumer requests on the Flexee App or information gathered through on-board diagnostics and connectivity, vehicle maintenance needs will be designed to be identified proactively. We expect that the vehicle will be picked up at a customer-specified location and brought to a nearby centralized service facility. This process will avoid the inconvenience that service stops at dealerships represent to consumers today. Our vehicles will be designed to have no “first mandatory service” as our vehicles will not need such a service. We expect service will be needed for mainly two reasons: (1) a fault shows up in the on-board diagnostics/request to go to service or (2) the customer notices something needs to be “fixed” and service is needed. In each case, we will be alerted by either the vehicle’s on-board diagnostics or the customer and we will then pick up the customer vehicle at an agreed time and place, service the vehicle and bring it back at an agreed time and place. We expect we will eventually be able to conduct pick-up and delivery without the customer being physically present, using a digital key and a location map. Our efficient service model will be performed in conjunction with select service partners. We believe this service model delivers a better, faster, and more convenient customer experience. We also believe this model drastically reduces cost, as we do not need to construct and operate dealerships at which to perform service. Several existing potential partners 13 Index to Financial Statements have already streamlined their service models and because no customers will be required to visit the service centers, the service centers can be located in lower cost areas and be focused only on vehicle service and not customer reception. We plan to have several company-owned service centers for more technically challenging cases, which will be strategically placed across geographies. Vehicle Financing We intend to launch a non-fixed term financing contract for our customers, which we will call the “Flexee lease.” The Flexee lease is inclusive of car use and maintenance. We are working on options to add insurance as well. We believe we will be able to offer a comparatively low lease payment due to lower capitalized costs, lower depreciation, and very low maintenance and replacement parts cost compared to traditional automobile brands. The capitalized cost reduction occurs through elimination of the dealer margin usually financed in a lease, a customer down payment, and by including government EV incentives where and when available. The lower and more even depreciation of the vehicle cost over its usable life results from anticipation of Fisker ownership of the vehicle over at least eight years, leading to a smoother depreciation curve compared to a typical automotive lease where depreciation is front-loaded into a three-year term. Additionally, carefully managed residual risk through reuse and refurbishment of the vehicles will minimize wear and tear and extend the vehicle life and value. We intend to offer branded financing directly to consumers. We anticipate that the loan process and funding will be arranged through financial services partners in different countries. Fisker Added Value Because our vehicles will adopt much of the base engineering of an established platform, we intend to focus our design and engineering efforts exclusively on what differentiates our product from the competition, leaving the “reinvention of the wheel” to competitors with the time, the money, and the inclination to do so. Key among the attributes defining Fisker-brand design and engineering is exterior and interior design language. The Fisker Ocean will establish the look and feel of Fisker products going forward—an evolution of the design language Henrik Fisker developed over his career and with which he has become synonymous. A key element of this design language is the broad shouldered, “muscular” stance of the vehicle. In creating an exterior design with these proportions, the our team has taken some key decisions intended to move typical autobody engineering solutions, such as a fixed hood, to a position more relevant to EVs. Not only will this give our vehicles a distinctive, unique look, it also simplifies an otherwise complex manufacturing build tolerance issue. This approach provides greater control of the front-end package and removes certain hardware, ultimately facilitating our desire to design a vehicle with class-leading frontal high-speed impact and pedestrian impact safety. The Fisker Ocean will also introduce many proprietary customer-focused features. An example is California Mode, a feature that allows for all door windows, the sixth light in the rear quarter, the glazed roof, and the tailgate glass to be fully opened with a single press of one control. Not only does this provide the ideal combination of convertible “openness” with fixed roof safety and security, but it also adds utility to the vehicle, allowing long cargo to be carried through the open tailgate glass. Fisker-brand design and engineering also encompasses our goal to build the world’s most sustainable vehicles. On the exterior of the vehicle we plan to install one of the largest automotive solar roof installations currently available. Our internal simulations indicate that this feature has the capability to deliver annually the equivalent of up to 2,000 miles of completely carbon free miles in optimum conditions. The technology behind this system is state of the art photovoltaic (“PV”) cells. We are working with two suppliers that will deliver the PV panels and incorporate the them into a uniquely designed opening roof. The sustainability features extend to the interior of the vehicle, where Fisker will utilize several materials that are at the cutting edge of recycling and reuse. For example, through the reuse of tire manufacturing byproducts, we will significantly reduce the amount of process waste that would otherwise go to landfill. We are also working with suppliers who recover and repurpose ocean waste. These suppliers recover plastic materials that have accumulated in oceans, such as 14 Index to Financial Statements bottles and fishing nets, and reprocess them into automotive grade feedstock which can then be used to manufacture new interior trim fabrics and moldings. In doing so we expect to reduce our requirement to source ‘new’ hydrocarbon-based feedstock, while simultaneously providing an outlet for, and thus supporting, those suppliers who are investing in ocean clean up as an alternate source of raw material. Our design language extends further into the interior of the vehicle with the deployment of our unique UI. In addition to seamless integration of user devices, such as mobile phones and tablets, Fisker has developed a large central screen display that is the largest in its class. This screen is the centerpiece of the Fisker UI and will integrate all main vehicle electrical functions and settings into a single, simple interface. The ergonomics of the central screen are further enhanced by combining user programmable “soft keys” on the touch screen surface, with five fixed switches that control the five most frequently used functions. In this way we expect to deliver a futuristic EV “glass cockpit” without the annoyance of searching through several menus to find that critical function, which has been a criticism of similar systems. The combination of this unique central screen and the digital driver’s display will ensure a class-leading user experience. Customers and Backlog Since we first opened our reservation system for the Ocean, we have offered prospective customers the opportunity to make a reservation with the flexibility to cancel at any time. Our retail reservation system is driven through our app and website, with each vehicle reservation requiring a $250 deposit for the first reservation, and $100 fully refundable deposit for the second reservation. In the event that someone wishes to cancel the first reservation, there is a 10% charge ($25) to cover third party and administrative costs for processing the refunds in a timely and secure manner. The retail reservations and cancellations are enabled by our mobile and web Fisker Flexee app, and our potential customers make their reservation and cancellation directly on these automated platforms. A second type of reservation are those made by corporations and fleet operators. We devote significant time and resources to our fleet customers, ensuring the Ocean is the right choice for their business and completing an MOU. Through February 14, 2022, we have received over 30,000 retail reservations, net of cancellations, and 1,600 fleet reservations. As we make more details of the Ocean available and our brand profile increases, we would expect both retail and fleet reservations to organically increase. Further, as we get closer to launch, we will be working with our prospective customers to transition their reservation into a contracted order. This would include the detailed vehicle specification (model series, color etc.) and delivery date. We will continue to share our reservation and contracted order data transparently through frequent updates to the market. Research and Development Our research and development activities primarily take place at the following Fisker’s facilities in Manhattan Beach, San Francisco, and Culver City, California and our partners’ facilities. The majority of our current activities are primarily focused on the research and development of our EVs and software technology platforms. We undertake significant testing and validation of our products in order to ensure that we will meet the demands of our future customers. We are working with various strategic partners to bring Fisker Ocean and other future EV models into commercialization. Sustainability Actions As demonstrated in our vision and mission, We are committed to sustainability, which includes our dedication not only to the environment, but also our communities and other stakeholders. We intend to engage with our community through direct actions such as beach clean-ups and employee food drives. We are currently evaluating incentive and other programs to support sustainability and social accountability throughout our corporate activities. Fisker’s Commitment to Building a Leading ESG, Digital Car Company Our commitment is to build the world’s leading, digital-first, next generation mobility company. We are building towards that vision with a commitment to a broad foundation of environmental, sustainability and ethical governance policies. Through this approach, we believe we will create a company that can better serve the needs of all our stakeholders and ultimately deliver greater returns. We are committed to leading the automotive industry in alignment with our mission. From the thorough analysis of the full life-cycle impact of our vehicles to creating solutions that minimize our carbon footprint and ensuring we 15 Index to Financial Statements responsibly source all of our materials. Our focus is on the total environmental and social impacts of our business throughout our supply chain. We seek to optimize our internal practices and build mutually beneficial relationships with the communities in which we operate. We have set strong performance standards through our policies, such as our Human Rights and Labor Policy and our Responsible Supplier Policy, including conflict materials chain of custody, of which we will validate. We have aligned with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDG’s), as a guidance framework for our internal targets and are using Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) requirements for measurement and reporting of our vehicles and related metrics. Through dedicated work streams and detailed research with investors, we are focused on providing best-in-class metrics and public ESG disclosures. We plan to publish our first ESG Impact Report in 2022. Our diverse management team and board of directors is a testament to our commitment to diversity and inclusion. We will continue to evaluate our governance structure, hiring practices and pay equity, in accordance with our company policies, industry benchmarks and reporting agencies. We have also created an ESG Advisory Council, comprised of non-company ESG leaders, who will help shape our strategy, our commitments and, work with us to engage in dialogue with NGO’s and other stakeholders on important civic issues. In addition to the ESG Advisory Board, we have an internal ESG governance structure, led by the head of ESG, with a leadership planning team that meets weekly, a monthly executive management strategy review team and review of critical material by the Board of Directors. Intellectual Property Our success depends in part upon our ability to protect its core technology and intellectual property. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights, both in the United States and abroad, through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure and invention assignment agreements with our consultants and employees, and we seek to control access to and distribution of its proprietary information through non-disclosure agreements with our vendors and business partners. Unpatented research, development and engineering skills make an important contribution to our business, but we pursue patent protection when we believe it is possible and consistent with our overall strategy for safeguarding intellectual property. As of February 25, 2022, we owned 9 issued U.S. patents and 4 foreign patents, and have 27 pending or allowed U.S. patent applications and 2 foreign patent applications. In addition, we have 13 registered U.S. trademark applications, 143 registered foreign trademark applications and 11 pending trademark applications. Our patents and patent applications are directed to, among other things, vehicle design, engineering and battery technology. Government Regulation and Credits We operate in an industry that is subject to extensive environmental regulation, which has become more stringent over time. The laws and regulations to which we are subject govern, among others, water use; air emissions; use of recycled materials; energy sources; the storage, handling, treatment, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials; the protection of the environment, natural resources and endangered species; and the remediation of environmental contamination. Compliance with such laws and regulations at an international, regional, national, provincial and local level is an important aspect of our ability to continue its operations. Environmental standards applicable to us are established by the laws and regulations of the countries in which we operate, standards adopted by regulatory agencies and the permits and licenses. Each of these sources is subject to periodic modifications and what we anticipate will be increasingly stringent requirements. Violations of these laws, regulations or permits and licenses may result in substantial civil and criminal fines, penalties, and possibly orders to cease the violating operations or to conduct or pay for corrective works. In some instances, violations may also result in the suspension or revocation of permits and licenses. Emissions In the U.S., Europe and China, there are vehicle emissions performance standards that will provide an opportunity for us to sell emissions credits. 16 Index to Financial Statements United States California has greenhouse gas emissions standards that closely follow the standards of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. The registration and sale of Zero Emission Vehicles (“ZEVs”) in California will earn Fisker ZEV credits that we can sell to other OEMs. Other U.S. states have adopted similar standards including Colorado, Connecticut, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York, Oregon, Rhode Island and Vermont. Fisker intends to take advantage of these regimes by registering and selling ZEVs in these other U.S. states. ZEV credits in California are calculated under the ZEV Regulation and are paid in relation to ZEVs sold and registered in California including Battery Electric Vehicles (“BEVs”) and Fuel Cell Electric Vehicles (“FCEVs”). The ZEV program assigns ZEV credits to each vehicle manufacturer. Vehicle manufacturers are required to maintain ZEV credits equal to a set percentage of non-electric vehicles sold and registered in California. Each vehicle sold and registered in California earns a number of credits based on the drivetrain type and the all-electric range (“AER”) of the vehicle under the Urban Dynamometer Driving Schedule Test Cycle. Plug-in hybrid vehicles (“PHEVs”) receive between 0.4 and 1.3 credits per vehicle sold and registered in California. Battery electric and fuel cell vehicles receive between 1 and 4 credits per vehicle sold in California, based on range. The credit requirement was 7% in 2019 which required about 3% of sales to be ZEVs. The credit requirement will rise to 22 percent in 2025, which will require about 8 percent of sales to be ZEVs. If a vehicle manufacturer does not produce enough EVs to meet its quota, it can choose to buy credits from other manufacturers who do or pay a $5,000 fine for each credit it is short. We believe this will provide an opportunity for Fisker to sell its ZEV credits to manufacturers who do not meet their quotas. European Union Regulation (EU) No. 443/2009 setting emissions performance standards for new passenger cars in the EU (as amended) provides that if the average CO2 emissions of a manufacturer’s fleet exceed its limit value in any Calendar Year from Calendar Year 2019 onwards, the manufacturer will have to pay to the European Commission an excess emissions premium of €95 for each subsequent CO2 g/km of exceedance per vehicle registered in the EU. In the EU, manufacturers of passenger cars may act jointly through a pooling arrangement to collectively meet their CO2 emissions targets. The indicative average EU fleet-wide emissions target for new passenger cars for the calendar year 2019 was 130 CO2 g/km. From 1 January 2020 this target has been reduced to 95 CO2 g/km. From 1 January 2020 until 31 December 2024 this target will be complemented by additional measures corresponding to a reduction of 10 CO2 g/km. Between 2025 and 2029 the target will be 15% stricter compared to 2021. From 1 January 2030, the target will be equal to a 37.5% reduction of the target in 2021. The European Commission adjusts the Specific Emissions Target each year for each manufacturer on the basis of the average mass of the relevant passenger cars using a limit value curve. This is laid down in Implementing Decisions. Manufacturers of passenger cars are given additional incentives to put on the European market zero and low-emission passenger cars emitting less than 50 CO2 g/km through a “super-credits” system. These are taken into account for the calculation of a manufacturer’s specific average emissions. Such passenger cars are to be counted as 2 vehicles in 2020, 1.67 vehicles in 2021, 1.33 vehicles in 2022, and 1 vehicle from 2023 onwards (subject to a cap of 7.5 CO2 g /km over the 2020-2022 period for each manufacturer). Given that the specific average emissions of CO2 of Fisker’s electric passenger cars will be 0.000 CO2 g/km per vehicle registered in the EU, this will provide an opportunity for other manufacturers, which may not otherwise meet their specific CO2 emissions targets, to pay Fisker to consolidate their fleets with those of Fisker via a pooling arrangement for CO2 emissions compliance purposes. 17 Index to Financial Statements China The Chinese New Energy Vehicle (“NEV”) legislation is a modified version of the Californian ZEV Regulation. The NEV program assigns NEV credits to each passenger vehicle manufacturer. Passenger vehicle manufacturers are required to maintain NEV credits equal to a set percentage of non-electric vehicles sold registered in China. Each NEV sold and registered in China earns a number of credits taking into account factors such as energy efficiency and driving range. Higher performance vehicles receive more credits, capped at six credits per vehicle. The NEV credit target is 12% in 2020. The NEV credit target is set to increase to 14% in 2021, 16% in 2022 and 18% in 2023. The system also allows passenger vehicle manufacturers to use surplus NEV credits to offset corporate average fuel consumption (“CAFC”) credit deficits. The policy creates a market for credits that will benefit manufacturers of electric passenger vehicles such as Fisker. Surplus NEV credits can be sold to other companies, and surplus CAFC credits can be banked and carried forward to help with CAFC compliance in future years or transferred to affiliated companies to help offset a CAFC credit deficit. If a passenger vehicle manufacturer fails to meet CAFC or NEV credit targets after adopting all possible compliance pathways, China’s Ministry of Industry and Information Technology may deny type approval for new models that cannot meet their specific fuel consumption standards until those deficits are fully offset. EPA Emissions and Certificate of Conformity The U.S. Clean Air Act requires that Fisker obtain a Certificate of Conformity issued by the EPA and a California Executive Order issued by the California Air Resources Board (“CARB”), concerning emissions for its vehicles. A Certificate of Conformity is required for vehicles sold in states covered by the Clean Air Act’s standards and an Executive Order is required for vehicles sold in states that have sought and received a waiver from the EPA to utilize California standards. CARB sets the California standards for emissions control for certain regulated pollutants for new vehicles and engines sold in California. States that have adopted the California standards as approved by EPA also recognize the Executive Order for sales of vehicles. There are currently four states which have adopted the California standard for heavy-duty vehicles. The Greenhouse Gas Rule was incorporated into the Clean Air Act on August 9, 2011. Since our vehicles have zero-emissions, Fisker is required to seek an EPA Certificate of Conformity for the Greenhouse Gas Rule, and a CARB Executive Order for the CARB Greenhouse Gas Rule. Vehicle Safety and Testing Our vehicles will be subject to, and will be required to comply with, numerous regulatory requirements established by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (“NHTSA”), including applicable U.S. federal motor vehicle safety standards (“FMVSS”). We intend that the Fisker Ocean will fully comply with all applicable FMVSSs without the need for any exemptions, and expect future Fisker vehicles to either fully comply or comply with limited exemptions related to new technologies. Additionally, there are regulatory changes being considered for several FMVSSs, and while we anticipate compliance, there is no assurance until final regulation changes are enacted. As a manufacturer, Fisker must self-certify that its vehicles meet all applicable FMVSSs, as well as the NHTSA bumper standard, or otherwise are exempt, before the vehicles can be imported or sold in the U.S. Numerous FMVSSs will apply to Fisker’s vehicles, such as crash-worthiness requirements, crash avoidance requirements and EV requirements. We will also be required to comply with other federal laws administered by NHTSA, including the CAFE standards, Theft Prevention Act requirements, consumer information labeling requirements, Early Warning Reporting requirements regarding warranty claims, field reports, death and injury reports and foreign recalls and owner’s manual requirements. The Automobile Information and Disclosure Act requires manufacturers of motor vehicles to disclose certain information regarding the manufacturer’s suggested retail price, optional equipment and pricing. In addition, this law 18 Index to Financial Statements allows inclusion of city and highway fuel economy ratings, as determined by EPA, as well as crash test ratings as determined by NHTSA if such tests are conducted. Fisker’s vehicles that may be sold outside of the U.S. are subject to similar foreign safety, environmental and other regulations. Many of those regulations are different from those applicable in the U.S. and may require redesign and/or retesting. The European Union has established new rules regarding additional compliance oversight that are scheduled to commence in 2020, and there is also regulatory uncertainty related to the United Kingdom’s withdrawal from the European Union. These changes could impact the rollout of new vehicle features in Europe. In addition to the various territorial legal requirements we are obligated to meet, the Fisker Ocean is engineered to deliver 5-star performance in the two main voluntary vehicle safety performance assessment programs, U.S. New Car Assessment Program (“NCAP”) and Euro NCAP. Five-star is the maximum attainable score. These independent organizations have introduced a number of additional safety related tests aimed at improving the safety of passenger vehicles, both for occupants and pedestrians involved in collisions with vehicles. Some of these tests are derived from the legal tests, such as side impact, but have higher performance requirements. Others are unique to the program. Areas covered by these tests in 2020 include: • Mobile Progressive Deformable Barrier • Full Width Rigid Barrier • Mobile Side Impact Barrier • Side Pole • Far Side Impact • Whiplash • Vulnerable Road Users (Pedestrians and Cyclists) • Safety Assist • Rescue and Extrication Strategic Collaborations Magna On October 14, 2020, Legacy Fisker and Spartan entered into a cooperation agreement with Magna setting forth certain terms for the development of a full electric vehicle (the “Cooperation Agreement”). The Cooperation Agreement sets out the main terms and conditions of the operational phase agreements (the “Operational Phase Agreements”) that will extend from the Cooperation Agreement and other agreements with Magna that are expected to be entered into by and between us and Magna (or its affiliates). The upcoming Operational Phase Agreements referenced in the Cooperation Agreement relate to various platform and manufacturing agreements. The Cooperation Agreement provides that we would issue to Magna warrants to purchase Class A Common Stock in an amount equal to six percent (6%) of our capital stock on a fully diluted basis (which means for these purposes, after giving effect to the deemed conversion or exercise of all of our options, warrants and other convertible securities outstanding on the issuance date; provided, however, that the “public warrants” sold as part of the units issued by Spartan in its initial public offering which closed on August 14, 2018 shall not be deemed to be exercised for these purposes) after giving effect to the Business Combination and issuance of the warrants 19 Index to Financial Statements to purchase such shares to Magna, with an exercise price of $0.01 per share of (the “Magna Warrants”). On October 29, 2020, we issued to Magna 19,474,454 Magna Warrants. The Magna Warrants are subject to vesting as follows: Milestones Percentage of Warrants that Vest Upon Achievement (i) Achievement of the “preliminary production specification” gateway as set forth in the Development Agreement; (ii) entering into the Platform Agreement; and (iii) entering into the Initial Manufacturing Agreement 33.3 % (i) Achievement of the “target agreement” gateway as set forth in the Development Agreement and (ii) entering into the Detailed Manufacturing Agreement, which will contain terms and conditions agreed to in the Initial Manufacturing 33.3 % Start of pre-serial production 33.4 % Additionally, (i) the shares of Class A Common Stock underlying the Magna Warrants are entitled to registration rights pursuant to the Amended and Restated Registration Rights Agreement dated as of October 29, 2020, among us, Spartan Energy Acquisition Sponsor LLC, Magna, Henrik Fisker, Dr. Geeta Gupta and certain former stockholders of Legacy Fisker and (ii) Magna entered into a lock-up agreement on the same terms as the other investors in Fisker. On December 17, 2020, we announced that our wholly-owned operating subsidiary, Fisker Group Inc., entered into (i) a non-exclusive car platform sharing agreement with Steyr USA LLC (an affiliate of Magna), and (ii) an initial contract manufacturing agreement with Magna, which were originally contemplated by the Cooperation Agreement. On April 27, 2021 we entered into a Supplement No 1 to Development Services Agreement with Magna Steyr which provides for the completion of the development and launch of Fisker Ocean. On June 12, 2021 Fisker entered into the Detailed Manufacturing Agreement with Magna Steyr which provides for the contract manufacturing of the Fisker Ocean by Magna Steyr. Human Capital Resources We pride ourselves on the quality of our diverse team by seeking to hire only employees that are dedicated and aligned with our strategic mission. We work to leverage partnerships and modulate hiring based on our product roadmap. As of February 14, 2022, we employed 396 full-time employees from 327 as of December 31, 2021 and 101 as of December 31, 2020 based primarily in our Manhattan Beach, San Francisco, and Culver City, California facilities. A majority of our employees are engaged in research and development and related functions. To date, we have not experienced any work stoppages and considers our relationships with our employees to be in good standing. None of our employees are either represented by a labor union or subject to a collective bargaining agreement. We strive to attract a pool of diverse and exceptional candidates and support their career growth once they become employees. In addition, we seek to hire based on talent rather than solely on educational pedigree. We also emphasize in our evaluation and career development efforts internal mobility opportunities for employees to drive professional development. Our goal is a long-term, upward-bound career at Fisker for every employee, which we believe also drives our retention efforts. We also believe that our ability to retain our workforce is dependent on our ability to foster an environment that is sustainably safe, respectful, fair and inclusive of everyone and promotes diversity, equity and inclusion inside and outside of our business. We engage diverse networks as key business resources and sources of actionable feedback. We are also working on diversity efforts in our supply chain to expand our outreach and support to small- and large-scale suppliers from underrepresented communities to emphasize this culture with our own employees. Corporate Information We were originally incorporated in Delaware in October 2017 as a special purpose acquisition company f/k/a Spartan Energy Acquisition Corp. In October 2020, we consummated our business combination with Fisker Group Inc. (f/k/a Fisker Inc.) through a reverse merger (the “Business Combination”). In connection with the closing of the Business Combination, we changed our name to Fisker Inc. 20 Index to Financial Statements Our principal executive offices are located at 1888 Rosecrans Avenue, Manhattan Beach, California 90266. Our telephone number at that location is (833) 434-7537. Our corporate website address is www.fiskerinc.com. Information contained on, or that may be accessed through, our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K and should not be considered a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Fisker is a registered trademark of Fisker Inc. All other brand names or trademarks appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are the property of their respective holders. Solely for convenience, the trademarks and trade names in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are referred to without the® and ™ symbols, but such references should not be construed as any indicator that their respective owners will not assert, to the fullest extent under applicable law, their rights thereto. Available Information We make available, free of charge through our website, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The SEC maintains an internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Item 1A.