 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Overview The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. The following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect future plans, estimates, beliefs and expected performance. The forward-looking statements are dependent upon events, risks and uncertainties that may be outside of our control. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified below and those discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K, particularly in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors. We do not undertake, and expressly disclaim, any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, new developments or otherwise, except to the extent that such disclosure is required by applicable law. 50 Index to Financial Statements OVERVIEW Fisker is building a technology-enabled, asset-light automotive business model that it believes will be among the first of its kind and aligned with the future state of the automotive industry. This involves a focus on vehicle development, customer experience, sales and service intended to change the personal mobility experience through technological innovation, ease of use and flexibility. The Company combines the legendary design and engineering expertise of Henrik Fisker to develop high quality electric vehicles with strong emotional appeal. Central to Fisker’s business model is the Fisker Flexible Platform Agnostic Design (“FF-PAD”), a proprietary process that allows the development and design of a vehicle to be adapted to any given electric vehicle (“EV”) platform in the specific segment size. The process focuses on selecting industry leading vehicle specifications and adapting the design to crucial hard points on a third-party supplied EV platform and outsourced manufacturing to reduce development cost and time to market. The first example of this is Fisker’s work to adapt the Fisker Ocean design to a base vehicle platform developed by Magna Steyr Fahrzeugtechnik AG & Co KG, a limited liability partnership established and existing under the laws of Austria (“Magna Steyr”), an affiliate of Magna International, Inc. (“Magna”). This development with Magna Steyr began in September 2020 and passed the first and second engineering gateways in November 202 and March 2021, respectively and we are currently in the prototype building phase for production in November 2022. Fisker believes it is well-positioned through its global premium EV brand, its renowned design capabilities, its sustainability focus, and its asset-light and low overhead, direct to consumer business model which enables products like the Fisker Ocean to be priced roughly equivalent to internal combustion engine-powered SUV’s from premium brand competitors. The Fisker Ocean is targeting a large and rapidly expanding “premium with volume” segment (meaning a premium automaker producing more than 100,000 units of a single model such as the BMW X3 Series or Tesla Model Y) of the electric SUV market. Fisker expects to begin production of the Ocean as early as the fourth quarter of 2022. The Fisker Ocean, a five-passenger vehicle with potentially a 250- to over 350-mile range and state-of-the-art advanced driver assistance capabilities, will be differentiated in the marketplace by its innovative and timeless design and a re-imagined customer experience delivered through an advanced software-based user interface. The Fisker Ocean is designed for a high degree of sustainability, using recycled rubber, eco-suede interior trim made from recycled polyester, and carpeting from fishing nets and plastic bottles recycled from ocean waste, among many other sustainable features. The optional features for the Ocean, including California Mode (patent pending) and a solar photovoltaic roof resulted in the Fisker Ocean prototype being the most awarded new automobile at CES 2020 by Time, Newsweek, Business Insider, CNET and others. Fisker believes its innovative business model, including “E-Mobility-as-a-Service” (“EMaaS”), will revolutionize how consumers view personal transportation and car ownership. Over time, Fisker plans to combine a customer-focused experience with flexible leasing options, affordable monthly payments and no fixed lease terms, in addition to direct-to-consumer sales. Through an innovative partnership strategy, Fisker believes that it will be able to significantly reduce the capital intensity typically associated with developing and manufacturing vehicles, while maintaining flexibility and optionality in component sourcing and manufacturing due to Fisker’s FF-PAD proprietary process. Through Fisker’s FF-PAD proprietary process, Fisker is currently working with Magna to develop a proprietary electric vehicle platform called FM29 that will underpin Fisker Ocean and at least one additional nameplate. Fisker intends to cooperate with one or more additional industry-leading original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”), technology companies, and/or tier-one automotive suppliers for access to procurement networks, while focusing on key differentiators in innovative design, software and user interface. Multiple platform-sharing partners is intended to accelerate growth in Fisker’s portfolio of electric vehicle offerings. Fisker envisions a go-to-market strategy with both web- and app-based digital sales, loan financing approvals, leasing, and service management, with limited reliance on traditional brick-and-mortar “sales-and-service” dealer networks. Fisker believes that this customer-focused approach will drive revenue, user satisfaction and higher margins than competitors. The Business Combination Fisker Inc. (“Fisker” or the “Company”) was originally incorporated in the State of Delaware in October 13, 2017 as a special purpose acquisition company under the name Spartan Energy Acquisition Corp. (“Spartan”), formed for the purpose of effecting a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, recapitalization, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses. Spartan completed its IPO in August 2018. In October 2020, Spartan’s wholly-owned subsidiary merged with and into Fisker Inc., a Delaware corporation (“Legacy Fisker”), with Legacy Fisker surviving the merger as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Spartan (the “Business Combination”). In connection with the consummation of the Business Combination (the “Closing”), the registrant changed its name from Spartan Energy Acquisition Corp. to Fisker Inc. The Business Combination was accounted for as a reverse 51 Index to Financial Statements recapitalization, in accordance with GAAP. Under this method of accounting, Spartan was treated as the “acquired” company for financial reporting purposes. Accordingly, the Business Combination was treated as the equivalent of Legacy Fisker issuing stock for the net assets of Spartan, accompanied by a recapitalization, whereby no goodwill or other intangible assets was recorded. Operations prior to the Business Combination are those of Legacy Fisker. Key Trends, Opportunities and Uncertainties Fisker has not begun commercial operations and currently does not generate any revenue from vehicle sales. The Company believes that its future performance and success depends to a substantial extent on the ability to capitalize on the following opportunities, which in turn is subject to significant risks and challenges, including those discussed below and in the section of this Form 10-K titled “ Risk Factors .” Partnering with Industry-Leading Tier-One Automotive Suppliers On October 14, 2020, Fisker and Spartan entered into a Cooperation Agreement with Magna setting forth certain terms for the development of a full electric vehicle (the “Cooperation Agreement”). The Cooperation Agreement set out the main terms and conditions of operational phase agreements (the “Operational Phase Agreements”) that will extend from the Cooperation Agreement and other agreements with Magna (or its affiliates). On December 17, 2020, Fisker entered into the platform-sharing and initial manufacturing Operational Phase Agreements referenced in the Cooperation Agreement. Fisker and Magna Steyr Fahrzeugtechnik AG & Co KG entered into a Development Services Agreement on October 22, 2020 and Addendum to Development Services Agreement on April 7, 2021 providing for the full development and industrialization of Fisker's proprietary FM29 Platform and Fisker Ocean as the first Fisker vehicle from Fisker's proprietary FM29 Platform. Fisker and Magna Steyr also entered into a Contract Manufacturing Agreement on June 12, 2021 for the launch and manufacture of the Fisker Ocean. Fisker has entered into or is currently concluding negotiations with several industry-leading tier-one automotive suppliers for component sourcing of the Fisker Ocean. On May 13, 2021, Fisker entered into a Project PEAR Cooperation Framework Agreement with AFE, Inc., a subsidiary of Foxconn Technology Group supporting a project to develop a breakthrough electric vehicle. These co-operations allow Fisker to focus on vehicle design, strong brand affiliation and a differentiated customer experience. Fisker intends to leverage multiple EV platforms to accelerate its time to market, reduce vehicle development costs and gain access to an established global supply chain of batteries and other components. 52 Index to Financial Statements Fisker believes that its business model will reduce the considerable execution risk typically associated with new car companies. Through such component sourcing and manufacturing partnerships, Fisker believes it will be able to accelerate its time to market and reduce vehicle development costs. Fisker remains on-track for Fisker Ocean start-of-production in Q4 2022 and intends to meet timing, cost and quality expectations while optimally matching its cost structure with its projected production ramp by leveraging such partnerships and trained workforces. Remaining hardware agnostic allows for selection of partners, components, and manufacturing decisions to be based on both timeline and cost advantages and enables Fisker to focus on delivering truly innovative design features, a superior customer experience, and a leading user interface that leverages sophisticated software and other technology advancements. Fisker continues to negotiate potential relationships with several other leading tier-one automotive suppliers. Fisker has entered into agreements covering the Magna base platform, development and engineering services, and manufacturing, among others. Extended negotiation of the specific project-related agreements, the sourcing of components or labor at higher than anticipated cost, or any delays in sourcing suppliers of sustainable parts may delay Fisker’s commercialization plans or require it to change the anticipated pricing of its vehicles. Such delays could be caused by a variety of factors, some of which may be out of Fisker’s control. For example, the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic has severely restricted international travel, which may make it more difficult for Fisker to conclude agreements with partners outside the United States. See “Risk Factors—Risks Related to Fisker—Fisker faces risks related to health epidemics, including the recent COVID-19 pandemic, which could have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations.” Unanticipated events, delays in negotiations by third parties and any required changes in Fisker’s current business plans could materially and adversely affect its business, margins and cash flows. Market Trends and Competition Fisker anticipates robust demand for the Fisker Ocean, based on its award-winning design, its unique sustainability features, the management team’s experience and know-how and, in particular, the growing acceptance of and demand for EVs as a substitute for gasoline-fueled vehicles. Many independent forecasts are assuming that EV’s as percentage of global auto sales will grow from less than 3% in 2020 to more than 20% in 2030. One such report from RBC, published in October 2020, assumes sales of EV’s to grow from less than 2.0 million units globally (less than 3% of total volume) to 25 million units in 2030 (approximately 25% of total volume), a 29% CAGR. The EV market is highly competitive and Fisker believes the market will be broken down into three primary consumer segments: the white space segment, the value segment, and the conservative premium segment. See “ Information About Fisker—Sales—Go to Market Strategy .” Fisker expects to sell approximately 50% of its vehicles within the white space segment, appealing to customers who want to be part of the new EV movement and value sustainability and environmental, social, and governance (“ESG”) initiatives. Fisker believes that it will be well positioned to be the primary alternative to Tesla in this segment with the Ocean priced around the base price of the Model 3 and Model Y. While Fisker will compete with other EV startups, many of them are moving into the higher luxury priced segments due to the lack of volume pricing of components that Fisker expects to obtain through partnerships with industry-leading OEMs and/or tier-one automotive suppliers. To expand market share and attract customers from competitors, Fisker must continue to innovate and convert successful research and development efforts into differentiated products, including new EV models. Fisker is also working to quantify the sustainability advancements and claims that the Fisker brand would produce the most sustainable vehicles in the world, which it believes will be an increasingly important differentiator among a growing subset of consumers. In Fisker’s pursuit of these objectives, it will be in competition with substantially larger and better capitalized vehicle manufacturers. While Fisker believes that the low-capital-intensity partnership strategy, together with direct-to-customer commercialization, provides the Company with an advantage relative to traditional and other established auto manufacturers, Fisker’s better capitalized competitors may seek to undercut the pricing or compete directly with Fisker’s designs by replicating their features. In addition, while Fisker believes that its strong management team forms the necessary backbone to execute on its strategy, the Company expects to compete for talent, as Fisker’s future growth will depend on hiring qualified and experienced personnel to operate all aspects of the business as it prepares to launch commercial operations. Commercialization Fisker currently anticipates commencing production of the Fisker Ocean in the fourth quarter of 2022, with initial customer deliveries in late 2022 at the earliest. Production commencement is dependent upon Fisker entering into definitive platform sharing agreements with one or more industry-leading OEMs and/or tier-one automotive suppliers. Failure to 53 Index to Financial Statements enter into these agreements timely could result in being unable to begin production in the timeframe anticipated. As of February 14, 2022, we have received over 30.000 retail reservations, net of cancellations, for the Fisker Ocean and 1,600 fleet reservations. Fisker plans to initially market its vehicles through its direct-to-consumer sales model, leveraging its proprietary Flexee app, which will serve as a one-stop-shop for all components of its EMaaS business model. Over time, Fisker plans to develop Fisker Experience Centers in select cities in North America and Europe, which will enable prospective customers to experience Fisker vehicles through test drives and virtual and augmented reality. Fisker also intends to enter, in each launch market, into third-party service partnerships with credible vehicle service organizations with established service facilities, operations and technicians. These companies’ services will be integrated into and booked via the Flexee app in order to create a hassle-free, app-based service experience for Fisker’s customers delivered at home, at work, or with a pick-up and delivery service booked online. For North America and United Kingdom, as examples, Fisker has entered into non-exclusive Memorandum of Understandings with divisions of Cox Automotive related to fleet management services. Fisker will continue to seek opportunities to build the service partnership model. Over time, Fisker aims to transform the EV sales model through the flexible lease model, under which customers will be able to utilize a vehicle on a month-to-month basis at an anticipated starting cost of $379 per month for the base model, with the ability to terminate the lease or upgrade their vehicle at any time. Development of a fleet of high value, sustainable EVs will allow Fisker to offer these flexible lease options to capture more customers. Fisker intends to require a non-refundable up-front payment of $3,000 under the flexible lease model, which the Company believes will reduce its cash flow risk and incentivize customers to keep their vehicles for a period of time. Fisker anticipates that, over time, it will acquire a substantial fleet of used EVs available for sale or further flexible lease by Fisker, which it believes will enhance its ability to maintain its premium brand and pricing. Fisker believes its digital, direct-to-consumer sales model reflects today’s changing consumer preferences and is less capital intensive and expensive than the traditional automotive sales models. Fisker’s commercialization strategy is, however, relatively novel for the car industry, which has historically relied on extensive advertising and marketing, as well as relationships with physical car dealership networks. Should Fisker’s assumptions about the commercialization of its vehicles prove overly optimistic or if the Company is unable to develop, obtain or maintain the direct-to-consumer marketing or service technology upon which its prospective customer base would rely, Fisker may incur delays to its ability to commercialize the Fisker Ocean. This may also lead Fisker to make changes in its commercialization plans, which could result in unanticipated marketing delays or cost overruns, which could in turn adversely impact margins and cash flows or require Fisker to change its pricing. Further, to the extent that Fisker doesn’t generate the margins it expects upon commercialization of the Fisker Ocean, Fisker may be required to raise additional debt or equity capital, which may not be available or may only be available on terms that are onerous to Fisker and its stockholders. Regulatory Landscape Fisker operates in an industry that is subject to and benefits from environmental regulations, which have generally become more stringent over time, particularly across developed markets. Regulations in Fisker’s target markets include economic incentives to purchasers of EVs, tax credits for EV manufacturers, and economic penalties that may apply to a car manufacturer based on its fleet-wide emissions ratings. See “ Information about Fisker—Government Regulation and Credits .” For example, a federal tax credit of $7,500 may be available to U.S. purchasers of Fisker vehicles, which would bring the effective estimated purchase price of the base Fisker Ocean model to approximately $30,000. Further, the registration and sale of Zero Emission Vehicles (“ZEVs”) in California will earn Fisker ZEV credits, which it may be able to sell to other OEMs or tier-one automotive suppliers seeking to access the state’s market. Several other U.S. states have adopted similar standards. In the European Union, where European car manufacturers are penalized for excessive fleet-wide emissions on the one hand and incentivized to produce low emission vehicles on the other, Fisker believes it will have the opportunity to monetize the ZEV technology through fleet emissions pooling arrangements with car manufacturers that may not otherwise meet their CO2 emissions targets. While Fisker expects environmental regulations to provide a tailwind to its growth, it is possible for certain regulations to result in margin pressures. For example, regulations that effectively impose EV production quotas on auto manufacturers may lead to an oversupply of EVs, which in turn could promote price decreases. As a pure play EV company, Fisker’s margins could be particularly and adversely impacted by such regulatory developments. Trade restrictions and tariffs, while historically minimal between the European Union and the United States where most of Fisker’s production and sales are expected, are subject to unknown and unpredictable change that could impact Fisker’s ability to meet projected sales or margins. 54 Index to Financial Statements Basis of Presentation Fisker currently conducts its business through one operating segment. As a pre-revenue company with no commercial operations, Fisker’s activities to date have been limited and were conducted primarily in the United States and its historical results are reported under United States generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) and in U.S. dollars. Upon commencement of commercial operations, Fisker expects to expand its global operations substantially, including in the USA and the European Union, and as a result Fisker expects its future results to be sensitive to foreign currency transaction and translation risks and other financial risks that are not reflected in its historical financial statements. As a result, Fisker expects that the financial results it reports for periods after it begins commercial operations will not be comparable to the financial results included in this Form 10-K or those incorporated by reference from the proxy statement. Components of Results of Operations Fisker is an early stage company and its historical results may not be indicative of its future results for reasons that may be difficult to anticipate. Accordingly, the drivers of Fisker’s future financial results, as well as the components of such results, may not be comparable to Fisker’s historical or projected results of operations. Revenues Fisker has not begun commercial operations and currently does not generate any revenue from vehicle sales. Once Fisker commences production and commercialization of its vehicles, it expects that the significant majority of its revenue will be initially derived from direct sales of Fisker Ocean SUVs and, subsequently, from flexible leases of its vehicles. In 2021, Fisker launched its merchandise “Fisker Edition” where it sells direct to consumers Fisker branded apparel and goods. While merchandise sales are not intended to be significant portion of Fisker’s results once production of vehicles begins, it will generate revenue pre-production. Cost of Goods Sold To date, Fisker has not recorded cost of goods sold from vehicle sales. Once Fisker commences the commercial production and sale of its vehicles, it expects cost of goods sold to include mainly vehicle components and parts, including batteries, direct labor costs, amortized tooling costs and capitalized costs associated with the Magna warrants, and reserves for estimated warranty expenses. Related to the 2021 launch of “Fisker Edition” apparel and goods, Fisker will realize cost of goods sold. General and Administrative Expense General and administrative expenses consist mainly of personnel-related expenses for Fisker’s executive and other administrative functions and expenses for outside professional services, including legal, accounting and other advisory services. Fisker is rapidly expanding its personnel headcount, in anticipation of the start of production of its vehicles. Accordingly, Fisker expects its general and administrative expenses to increase significantly in the near term and for the foreseeable future. For example, the company expects general and administrative expenses, excluding stock-based compensation expenses (refer to non-GAAP financial measure discussed below), in the year ended December 31, 2022 to be in the range of $105-$120 million as compared to $42.4 million in the year ended December 31, 2021. Upon commencement of commercial operations, Fisker also expects general and administrative expenses to include facilities, marketing and advertising costs. Research and Development Expense To date, Fisker’s research and development expenses have consisted primarily of external engineering services in connection with the design of the Fisker Ocean model and development of the first prototype. As Fisker ramps up for commercial operations, it anticipates that research and development expenses will increase for the foreseeable future as the Company expands its hiring of engineers and designers and continues to invest in new vehicle model design and development of technology. For example, the company expects research and development expenses, excluding stock-based 55 Index to Financial Statements compensation expenses (refer to non-GAAP financial measure discussed below), in the year ended December 31, 2022 to be in the range of $330-$380 million as compared to $286.9 million in the year ended December 31, 2021. Income Tax Expense / Benefit Fisker’s income tax provision consists of an estimate for U.S. federal and state income taxes based on enacted rates, as adjusted for allowable credits, deductions, uncertain tax positions, changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities, and changes in the tax law. Fisker maintains a valuation allowance against the full value of its U.S. and state net deferred tax assets because Fisker believes the recoverability of the tax assets is not more likely than not. Results of Operations Comparison of the Year Ended December 31, 2021 to the Year Ended December 31, 2020 The following table sets forth Fisker’s historical operating results for the periods indicated: n.m. = not meaningful. General and Administrative General and administrative expense increased by $20.1 million or 90.4% from $22.3 million during year ended December 31, 2020 to $42.4 million during year ended December 31, 2021, primarily due to increased salaried employee headcount offset by transaction-related expenses of $5 million, including $3.5 million in success fees related to the issuance of our convertible security in July 2020, and legal costs of $5.3 million during 2020. General and administrative expenses includes stock-based compensation expense of $1 million and $0.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. On March 18, 2021, the Board of Directors of Fisker, approved, effective as of March 15, 2021, at the request of Dr. Geeta Gupta-Fisker, the Company’s Chief Financial Officer, an 82% decrease in Dr. Gupta-Fisker’s annual base salary from $325,000 to $58,240 which is California’s minimum annual wage. 56 Index to Financial Statements Research and Development Research and development expense increased by $265.8 million or 1,262.6% from $21.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2020 to $286.9 million during the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase primarily relates to higher headcount in research and development and nomination of a majority of our suppliers who completed engineering and development services, produced prototype tooling and commenced building prototype Fisker Oceans and testing and validation during 2021. Research and development expenses includes stock-based compensation expense of $4.5 million and $0.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Interest Expense Interest expense was $6.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2021 and $1.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2020. The $4.9 million or 306.6% increase is due to the sale, in August 2021, of $667.5 million principal amount of 2.50% convertible senior notes compared to interest expense from bridge note financing in 2020 leading up to the completion of the Business Combination. Interest expense in each subsequent quarterly reporting periods throughout calendar year 2022 will approximate $4.5 million, including accretion of debt issuance costs. Change in Fair Value of Derivatives The change in fair value of derivatives amounted to a non-cash loss of $138.4 million attributed to public and private warrants during the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to a $85.4 million loss attributed to public and private warrants and a convertible equity security during the year ended December 31, 2020. In July 2020, the Company issued a convertible equity security, which was adjusted to fair value as of September 30, 2020, and then subsequently converted into shares of Class A common stock upon closing the Business Combination in the fourth quarter of 2020. The Company’s public and private warrants were outstanding resulting in fair value adjustments of $138.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to $75.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 of which the entire amount is recorded in the fourth quarter of 2020. The public and private warrants were exercised or redeemed and no longer outstanding by the end of the second quarter of 2021. Foreign Currency Gain (Loss) Fisker recorded foreign currency gains of $2.7 million resulting mainly from the remeasurement of Euro ("EUR")-denominated assets and liabilities into USD and the settlement of EUR-denominated monetary liabilities during the year ended December 31, 2021, an increase of $2.3 million or 733.2%, compared to gains of $0.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. In 2022, Fisker expects its EUR-denominated transactions associated with our foreign operations and services provided by suppliers will increase significantly and will subject Fisker to greater fluctuation in realized gain and losses from foreign currencies. Net Loss Net loss was $471.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2021, an increase of $341.3 million or 262.6% from $130.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2020, for the reasons discussed above. 57 Index to Financial Statements Comparison of the Year Ended December 31, 2020 to the Year Ended December 31, 2019 The following table sets forth Fisker’s historical operating results for the periods indicated: n.m. = not meaningful. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses increased by $18.6 million or 514.2% from $3.6 million during year ended December 31, 2019 to $22.3 million during year ended December 31, 2020, primarily due to increased salaried employee headcount, transaction-related expenses of $5 million, including $3.5 million in success fees related to the issuance of our convertible security in July 2020, and legal costs of $5.3 million. General and administrative expenses includes stock-based compensation expense of $377 thousands and $30 thousands for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. On March 18, 2021, the Board of Directors of Fisker, approved, effective as of March 15, 2021, at the request of Dr. Geeta Gupta-Fisker, the Company’s Chief Financial Officer, an 82% decrease in Dr. Gupta-Fisker’s annual base salary from $325,000 to $58,240 which is California’s minimum annual wage. Research and Development Research and development expenses increased by $14.1 million or 202.4% from $7.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2019 to $21.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2020. The increase by $14.1 million primarily relates to higher headcount in research and development and payments to suppliers. Research and development expenses includes stock-based compensation expense of $334 thousands and $55 thousands for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Interest Expense Interest expense was $1.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2020 and $0.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2019. The $1.4 million increase reflected the issuance of convertible bridge notes, starting in the second half of 2019 through the first nine months of 2020. Change in Fair Value of Derivatives The change in fair value of derivatives amounted to a loss of $85.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to a loss of $0.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2019, reflecting a $10 million loss due to 58 Index to Financial Statements changes in fair value of the embedded derivative relating to Fisker’s convertible bridge notes and convertible security, which was issued in July 2020, in addition to an increase of $75.4 million in the fair value of public and private warrants from its initial fair value at the close of the Business Combination during the year ended December 31, 2020. The bridge notes and convertible security converted into Class A common shares at the close of the Business Combination. Foreign Currency Gain (Loss) Fisker recorded immaterial foreign currency gains or losses during the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019. Net Loss Net loss was $130.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2020, an increase of $119.1 million from $10.9 million during the year ended December 31, 2019, for the reasons discussed above. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of the date of this Form 10-K, Fisker has yet to generate any revenue from its core business operations. To date, Fisker has funded its capital expenditure and working capital requirements through equity and convertible notes, as further discussed below. Fisker’s ability to successfully commence commercial operations and expand its business will depend on many factors, including its working capital needs, the availability of equity or debt financing and, over time, its ability to generate cash flows from operations. As of December 31, 2021, Fisker’s cash and cash equivalents amounted to $1,202 million. In August 2021, we entered into a purchase agreement for the sale of an aggregate of $667.5 million principal amount of convertible senior notes due in 2026. The net proceeds from the issuance of the 2026 Notes were $562.2 million, net of debt issuance costs and the 2027 Capped Call Transactions discussed further in Note 11. The 2026 Notes mature on September 15, 2026, unless repurchased, redeemed, or converted in accordance with their terms prior to such date. The 2026 Notes were not convertible as of December 31, 2021. Fisker expects its capital expenditures and working capital requirements to increase substantially in 2022, as it progresses toward production of the Fisker Ocean, develop its customer support and marketing infrastructure and expand its research and development efforts. Fisker believes that its cash on hand following the consummation of the Business Combination and issuance of the convertible senior notes will be sufficient to meet its working capital and capital expenditure requirements for a period of at least twelve months from the date of this Form 10-K and sufficient to fund its operations until it commences production of the Fisker Ocean. Fisker may, however, need additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other developments, including unanticipated delays in negotiations with OEMs and tier-one automotive suppliers or other suppliers, supply chain challenges, disruptions due to COVID-19, competitive pressures, and regulatory developments, among other developments. To the extent that Fisker’s current resources are insufficient to satisfy its cash requirements, Fisker may need to seek additional equity or debt financing. If the financing is not available, or if the terms of financing are less desirable than Fisker expects, Fisker may be forced to decrease its level of investment in product development or scale back its operations, which could have an adverse impact on its business and financial prospects. Cash Flows The following table provides a summary of Fisker’s cash flow data for the periods indicated: 59 Index to Financial Statements Cash Flows used in Operating Activities Fisker’s net cash flows used in operating activities to date have been primarily comprised of costs related to research and development, payroll and other general and administrative activities. As Fisker continues to accelerate hiring in line with development and production of the Ocean, Fisker expects its cash used in operating activities to increase significantly before it starts to generate any significant cash inflows from its business. Operating lease commitments at December 31, 2021 will result in cash payments of $4.6 million in 2022 and $17.6 million for 2023 and thereafter. It is expected that Fisker will commence new leases for experience centers in the U.S. and Europe during the first half of 2022. Also, Fisker will procure components for the pre-serial and serial production of the Ocean during 2022 at negotiated prices most of which will be denominated in foreign currencies. In total, Fisker is projecting to use cash in excess of $435 million for combined SG&A and R&D activities during 2022. Net cash used in operating activities was $301.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to $38.0 million net cash used during the year ended December 31, 2020. Cash Flows used in Investing Activities Fisker’s cash flows from investing activities, for the year ended December 31, 2021, have been comprised of purchases of $134.4 million for the construction of serial production tooling and manufacturing equipment. During 2021, the Company also acquired intangible assets related to manufacturing of the Fisker Ocean and production of its parts, and capitalized certain expenditures associated with capital assets that benefit our vehicle program development in future periods. Fisker expects these costs to increase substantially in 2022 as significant expenditures for manufacturing and development, testing and validation, tooling, manufacturing equipment, software licenses, and IT infrastructure are anticipated to exceed $280 million of which we expect at least 50% is denominated in foreign currencies, as construction of serial production tooling and manufacturing equipment is completed and installed at both vehicle assembly and supplier facilities in 2022. Fisker used cash of $134.4 million for investing activity during the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to $0.7 million of cash used during the year ended December 31, 2020. On July 28, 2021, the Company made a $10 million commitment payable upon consummation of the merger for a private investment in public equity (PIPE) supporting the planned merger of leading European EV charging network, Allego B.V. (“Allego”) with Spartan Acquisition Corp. III (NYSE: SPAQ), a publicly-listed special purpose acquisition company. The planned merger is expected to close in the first quarter of 2022. Fisker is the exclusive electric vehicle automaker in the PIPE and, in parallel, has agreed to terms on a strategic partnership to deliver a range of charging options for its customers in Europe. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Through December 31, 2021, Fisker has financed its operations primarily through the sale of equity securities and convertible senior notes. Net cash from financing activities was $651.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2021, reflecting the proceeds of $89 million from public warrant holders who exercised 7,733,400 warrants to acquire a corresponding equal number of Class A common stock and proceeds of $667.5 million from the sale of convertible senior notes due in 2026, before payments for debt issuance costs of $8.4 million and $96.8 million for the purchase of a capped call option. Net cash from financing activities was $1,028 million during the year ended December 31, 2020, reflecting mainly the proceeds from recapitalization of Spartan shares, net of redemptions and issuance costs, of $976 million, issuance of $46.5 million in convertible equity securities (net of success fees of $3.5 million), and convertible bridge notes of $5.4 million. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Fisker is not a party to any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined under SEC rules. 60 Index to Financial Statements Non-GAAP Financial Measure The accompanying table references non-GAAP adjusted loss from operations. This non-GAAP financial measures differs from the directly comparable GAAP financial measures due to adjustments made to exclude stock-based compensation expense. This non-GAAP financial measures is not a substitute for or superior to measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to any other performance measures derived in accordance with GAAP. The Company believes that presenting this non-GAAP financial measure provides useful supplemental information to investors about the Company in understanding and evaluating its operating results, enhancing the overall understanding of its past performance and future prospects, and allowing for greater transparency with respect to key financial metrics used by its management in financial and operational-decision making. However, there are a number of limitations related to the use of a non-GAAP measure and its nearest GAAP equivalents. For example, other companies may calculate non-GAAP measures differently, or may use other measures to calculate their financial performance, and therefore any non-GAAP measures the Company uses may not be directly comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. Therefore, both GAAP financial measures of Fisker’s financial performance and the respective non-GAAP measures should be considered together. Please see the reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measure in the tables below. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Fisker’s financial statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. In the preparation of these financial statements, Fisker is required to use judgment in making estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported expenses incurred during the reporting periods. Fisker considers an accounting judgment, estimate or assumption to be critical when (1) the estimate or assumption is complex in nature or requires a high degree of judgment and (2) the use of different judgments, estimates and assumptions could have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. Fisker’s significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 to its audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Because Fisker is a pre-revenue company without commercial operations, management believes it has a limited number of critical accounting policies or estimates, which will change over time as Fisker begins selling vehicles in the future. Stock-Based Compensation Fisker recognizes the cost of share-based awards granted to employees, nonemployees, and directors based on the estimated grant-date fair value of the awards. Cost is recognized on a straight-line basis over the service period, which is generally the vesting period of the award, except for the capitalization of costs associated with the Magna warrants. Fisker reverses previously recognized costs for unvested options in the period that forfeitures occur. Fisker determines the fair value of stock options using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, which is impacted by the following assumptions: • Expected Term —Fisker uses the simplified method when calculating the expected term due to insufficient historical exercise data. • Expected Volatility —As Fisker’s shares have actively traded for a short period of time subsequent to the Business Combination, the volatility is based on a benchmark of comparable companies within the automotive and energy storage industries. • Expected Dividend Yield —The dividend rate used is zero as Fisker has never paid any cash dividends on common stock and does not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. 61 Index to Financial Statements • Risk-Free Interest Rate —The interest rates used are based on the implied yield available on U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issues with an equivalent remaining term equal to the expected life of the award. In the third quarter of 2021, the Company’s compensation committee ratified and approved performance-based restricted stock units (“PRSUs”) to all employees (“Grantee”) the value of which is determined based on the Grantee’s level within the Company (“PRSU Value”). Each PRSU is equal to one underlying share of Class A common stock. Also, PRSUs will be awarded to any new employee hired in the fourth quarter of 2021 and during 2022 on a pro-rata basis based on a reduction in time of service. Each PRSU award shall vest as to 50% of the PRSU Value upon the Committee’s determination, in its sole discretion, and certification of the occurrence of the Ocean Start of Production and shall vest as to 50% of the PRSUs upon the first anniversary of the Ocean Start of Production, in each case, subject to (i) the Grantee’s continuous service through the applicable vesting date, (ii) the Grantee’s not committing any action or omission that would constitute Cause for termination through the applicable vesting date, as determined in the sole discretion of the Company, and (iii) the Ocean Start of Production occurring on or before December 31, 2022. The compensation committee has discretion to reduce or eliminate the number of PRSUs that shall vest pursuant to each PRSU award upon the certification of the occurrence of the Ocean Start of Production and/or upon the first anniversary of the Ocean Start of Production, after considering, any factors that it deems relevant, which could include but are not limited to (i) Company performance against key performance indicators, and (ii) departmental performance against goals. The service inception date precedes the grant dates for both performance conditions. The grant date for each of the performance conditions is the date Grantees have a mutual understanding of the key terms and conditions of the PRSU, which will occur when each performance conditions is achieved, and the compensation committee has determined whether it will exercise its discretion to adjust the PRSU award. Recognition of stock-based compensation occurs when the performance conditions are probable of achievement. Determining when a performance condition is probable of being met will require judgment due to the discretionary nature of evaluating performance under the terms and conditions of the award. Long-Lived Asset Impairment As of December 31, 2021, our long-lived assets were comprised primarily of $18.3 million, $85.6 million and $231.5 million of net property, plant and equipment, operating lease right-of-use assets, and intangible asset, respectively. We test long-lived assets for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset group may not be recoverable. Recoverability of an asset group is assessed by comparing its carrying amount to the estimated future undiscounted net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset group through operation or disposition, calculated utilizing the lowest level of identifiable cash flows. If this comparison indicates that the carrying amount of an asset group is not recoverable, we are required to recognize an impairment loss. The impairment loss is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its estimated fair value. In estimating the recoverability of asset groups for purposes of our long-lived asset impairment testing when indicators or events are present, we will utilize future cash flow projections that are generally developed internally. As of December 31, 2021, Fisker Inc. does not generate revenues and will not generate revenue from vehicle sales until late 2022. Our revenues will be limited to minimal merchandise, which is not expected to be our primary source of revenues, and vehicle sales once production begins in the fourth quarter of 2022. Any estimates of future cash flow projections necessarily involve predicting unknown future circumstances and events and require significant management judgments and estimates. In arriving at our cash flow projections, we will consider our approved budgets and business plans, existing paid reservations and projected reservations, estimated asset holding periods, and other factors. Determining the future cash flows of an asset group involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain, which is heightened during our pre-revenue period. These estimates and assumptions include revenue and expense growth rates and operating margins used to calculate projected future cash flows. Future events may indicate differences from management’s current judgments and estimates which could, in turn, result in future impairments. Future events that may result in impairment charges include not achieving program gateways, regulatory standards, detailed development and manufacturing agreements or delays in production milestones, the start of production and/or ramp up production or a reduction in projected sales volumes. Significant adverse changes in our future revenues and/or operating margins caused by higher-than-expected bill-of-material costs, as well as other events and circumstances, including, but not limited to, increased competition and changing economic or market conditions, could result in changes in estimated future cash flows and the determination that long-lived assets are impaired. 62 Index to Financial Statements No indicators of impairment are present at December 31, 2021. Emerging Growth Company Status Section 102(b)(1) of the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (“JOBS Act”) exempts emerging growth companies from being required to comply with new or revised financial accounting standards until private companies are required to comply with the new or revised financial accounting standards. The JOBS Act provides that a company can choose not to take advantage of the extended transition period and comply with the requirements that apply to non-emerging growth companies, and any such election to not take advantage of the extended transition period is irrevocable. Prior to December 31, 2021, Fisker was an “emerging growth company” as defined in Section 2(a) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and elected to take advantage of the benefits of the extended transition period for new or revised financial accounting standards. Fisker has taken advantage of the benefits of the extended transition period, although it may decide to early adopt such new or revised accounting standards to the extent permitted by such standards. This may make it difficult or impossible to compare Fisker’s financial results with the financial results of another public company that is either not an emerging growth company or is an emerging growth company that has chosen not to take advantage of the extended transition period exemptions because of the potential differences in accounting standards used. Effective December 31, 2021, Fisker exited its emerging growth company status and met the definition of a large accelerated filer, as defined under Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. The accommodations afforded to an emerging growth company will no longer apply. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 to the audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for more information about recent accounting pronouncements, the timing of their adoption, and Fisker’s assessment, to the extent it has made one, of their potential impact on Fisker’s financial condition and its results of operations and cash flows. Item 7A.