 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Overview The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. The following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect future plans, estimates, beliefs and expected performance. The forward-looking statements are dependent upon events, risks and uncertainties that may be outside of our control. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified below and those discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K, particularly in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors. We do not undertake, and expressly disclaim, any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, new developments or otherwise, except to the extent that such disclosure is required by applicable law. OVERVIEW Fisker is building a technology-enabled, asset-light automotive business model that it believes will be among the first of its kind and aligned with the future state of the automotive industry. This involves a focus on vehicle development, customer experience, sales and service intended to change the personal mobility experience through technological innovation, ease of use and flexibility. The Company combines the legendary design and engineering expertise of Henrik Fisker to develop high quality electric vehicles with strong emotional appeal. Central to Fisker’s business model is the Fisker Flexible Platform Agnostic Design (“FF-PAD”), a proprietary process that allows the development and design of a vehicle to be adapted to any given electric vehicle (“EV”) platform in the specific segment size. The process focuses on selecting industry leading vehicle specifications and adapting the design to crucial hard points on a third-party supplied EV platform and outsourced manufacturing to reduce development cost and time to market. The first example of this is Fisker’s work to adapt the Fisker Ocean design to a base vehicle platform developed by Magna Steyr (“Magna”). This development with Magna began in September 2020 and passed the first engineering gateway in November 2020. Fisker believes it is well-positioned through its global premium EV brand, its renowned design capabilities, its sustainability focus, and its asset-light and low overhead, direct to consumer business model which enables products like the Fisker Ocean to be priced roughly equivalent to internal combustion engine-powered SUV’s from premium brand competitors. The Fisker Ocean is targeting a large and rapidly expanding “premium with volume” segment (meaning a premium automaker producing more than 100,000 units of a single model such as the BMW X3 Series or Tesla Model Y) of the electric SUV market. Fisker expects to begin production of the Ocean as early as the fourth quarter of 2022. The Fisker Ocean, a five-passenger vehicle with potentially a 250- to over 350-mile range and state-of-the-art autonomous driving capabilities, will be differentiated in the marketplace by its innovative and timeless design and a re-imagined customer experience delivered through an advanced software-based user interface. The Fisker Ocean is designed for a high degree of sustainability, using recycled rubber, eco-suede interior trim made from recycled polyester, and carpeting from fishing nets and plastic bottles recycled from ocean waste, among many other sustainable features. The optional features for the Ocean, including California Mode (patent pending), a solar photovoltaic roof and “Head-up” display, resulted in the Fisker Ocean prototype being the most awarded new automobile at CES 2020 by Time, Newsweek, Business Insider, CNET and others. Fisker believes its innovative business model, including “E-Mobility-as-a-Service” (“EMaaS”), will revolutionize how consumers view personal transportation and car ownership. Over time, Fisker plans to combine a customer-focused experience with flexible leasing options, affordable monthly payments and no fixed lease terms, in addition to direct-to-consumer sales. Through an innovative platform sharing partnership strategy, Fisker believes that it will be able to significantly reduce the capital intensity typically associated with 53 Index to Financial Statements developing and manufacturing vehicles, while maintaining flexibility and optionality in component sourcing and manufacturing due to Fisker’s FF-PAD proprietary process. Through Fisker’s FF-PAD proprietary process, Fisker is currently working with Magna to develop a proprietary electric vehicle platform called FM29 that will underpin Fisker Ocean and at least one additional nameplate. Fisker intends to cooperate with one or more additional industry-leading original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”), technology companies, and/or tier-one automotive suppliers for platform sharing and access to procurement networks, while focusing on key differentiators in innovative design, software and user interface. Multiple platform-sharing partners is intended to accelerate growth in Fisker’s portfolio of electric vehicle offerings. Fisker envisions a go-to-market strategy with both web- and app-based digital sales, loan financing approvals, leasing, and service management, with limited reliance on traditional brick-and-mortar “sales-and-service” dealer networks. Fisker believes that this customer-focused approach will drive revenue, user satisfaction and higher margins than competitors. The Business Combination Fisker Inc. (“Fisker” or the “Company”) was originally incorporated in the State of Delaware in October 13, 2017 as a special purpose acquisition company under the name Spartan Energy Acquisition Corp. (“Spartan”), formed for the purpose of effecting a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, recapitalization, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses. Spartan completed its IPO in August 2018. In October 2020, Spartan’s wholly-owned subsidiary merged with and into Fisker Inc., a Delaware corporation (“Legacy Fisker”), with Legacy Fisker surviving the merger as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Spartan (the “Business Combination”). In connection with the Business Combination, Spartan changed its name to Fisker Inc. In connection with the consummation of the Business Combination (the “Closing”), the registrant changed its name from Spartan Energy Acquisition Corp. to Fisker Inc. The Business Combination was accounted for as a reverse recapitalization, in accordance with GAAP. Under this method of accounting, Spartan was treated as the “acquired” company for financial reporting purposes. Accordingly, the Business Combination was treated as the equivalent of Legacy Fisker issuing stock for the net assets of Spartan, accompanied by a recapitalization, whereby no goodwill or other intangible assets was recorded. Operations prior to the Business Combination are those of Legacy Fisker. Key Trends, Opportunities and Uncertainties Fisker is a pre-revenue company and believes that its future performance and success depends to a substantial extent on the ability to capitalize on the following opportunities, which in turn is subject to significant risks and challenges, including those discussed below and in the section of this Form 10-K titled “ Risk Factors .” Partnering with Industry-Leading OEMs and/or Tier-One Automotive Suppliers On October 14, 2020, Fisker and Spartan entered into a Cooperation Agreement with Magna setting forth certain terms for the development of a full electric vehicle (the “Cooperation Agreement”). The Cooperation Agreement sets out the main terms and conditions of the upcoming operational phase agreements (the “Operational Phase Agreements”) that will extend from the Cooperation Agreement and other agreements with Magna (or its affiliates) that are expected to be entered into by and between Fisker and Magna (or its affiliates). On December 17, 2020, Fisker entered into the platform-sharing and initial manufacturing Operational Phase Agreements referenced in the Cooperation Agreement. Fisker is currently in negotiations with Magna and several other industry-leading OEMs and tier-one automotive suppliers for platform sharing, component sourcing and manufacturing. On February 24, 2021, Fisker entered into a Memorandum of Understanding with Hon Hai Technology Group (“Foxconn”) supporting a project to develop a breakthrough electric vehicle. The companies expect to complete definitive agreements related to this effort in Q2 2021. 54 Index to Financial Statements These co-operations allow Fisker to focus on vehicle design, strong brand affiliation and a differentiated customer experience. Fisker intends to leverage multiple EV platforms to accelerate its time to market, reduce vehicle development costs and gain access to an established global supply chain of batteries and other components. Fisker believes that its business model will reduce the considerable execution risk typically associated with new car companies. Through such platform sharing, component sourcing and manufacturing partnerships, Fisker believes it will be able to accelerate its time to market and reduce vehicle development costs. Fisker remains on-track for Fisker Ocean start-of-production in Q4 2022 and intends to meet timing, cost and quality expectations while optimally matching its cost structure with its projected production ramp by leveraging such partnerships and trained workforces. Remaining hardware agnostic allows for selection of partners, components, and manufacturing decisions to be based on both timeline and cost advantages and enables Fisker to focus on delivering truly innovative design features, a superior customer experience, and a leading user interface that leverages sophisticated software and other technology advancements. Fisker continues to negotiate a potential relationship with several other industry-leading OEMs and tier-one automotive suppliers. Fisker has entered into agreements covering the Magna base platform, development and engineering services, and manufacturing, among others. Extended negotiation of the specific project-related agreements, the sourcing of components or labor at higher than anticipated cost, or any delays in sourcing suppliers of sustainable parts may delay Fisker’s commercialization plans or require it to change the anticipated pricing of its vehicles. Such delays could be caused by a variety of factors, some of which may be out of Fisker’s control. For example, the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic has severely restricted international travel, which may make it more difficult for Fisker to conclude agreements with partners outside the United States. See “Risk Factors—Risks Related to Fisker—Fisker faces risks related to health epidemics, including the recent COVID-19 pandemic, which could have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations.” Unanticipated events, delays in negotiations by third parties and any required changes in Fisker’s current business plans could materially and adversely affect its business, margins and cash flows. 55 Index to Financial Statements Market Trends and Competition Fisker anticipates robust demand for the Fisker Ocean, based on its award-winning design, its unique sustainability features, the management team’s experience and know-how and, in particular, the growing acceptance of and demand for EVs as a substitute for gasoline-fueled vehicles. Many independent forecasts are assuming that EV’s as percentage of global auto sales will grow from less than 3% in 2020 to more than 20% in 2030. One such report from RBC, published in October 2020, assumes sales of EV’s to grow from less than 2.0 million units globally (less than 3% of total volume) to 25 million units in 2030 (approximately 25% of total volume), a 29% CAGR. The EV market is highly competitive and Fisker believes the market will be broken down into three primary consumer segments: the white space segment, the value segment, and the conservative premium segment. See “ Information About Fisker—Sales—Go to Market Strategy .” Fisker expects to sell approximately 50% of its vehicles within the white space segment, appealing to customers who want to be part of the new EV movement and value sustainability and environmental, social, and governance (“ESG”) initiatives. Fisker believes that it will be well positioned to be the primary alternative to Tesla in this segment with the Ocean priced around the base price of the Model 3 and Model Y. While Fisker will compete with other EV startups, many of them are moving into the higher luxury priced segments due to the lack of volume pricing of components that Fisker expects to obtain through platform sharing partnerships with industry-leading OEMs and/or tier-one automotive suppliers. To expand market share and attract customers from competitors, Fisker must continue to innovate and convert successful research and development efforts into differentiated products, including new EV models. Fisker is also working to quantify the sustainability advancements and claims that the Fisker brand would produce the most sustainable vehicles in the world, which it believes will be an increasingly important differentiator among a growing subset of consumers. In Fisker’s pursuit of these objectives, it will be in competition with substantially larger and better capitalized vehicle manufacturers. While Fisker believes that the low-capital-intensity platform sharing partnership strategy, together with direct-to-customer commercialization, provides the Company with an advantage relative to traditional and other established auto manufacturers, Fisker’s better capitalized competitors may seek to undercut the pricing or compete directly with Fisker’s designs by replicating their features. In addition, while Fisker believes that its strong management team forms the necessary backbone to execute on its strategy, the Company expects to compete for talent, as Fisker’s future growth will depend on hiring qualified and experienced personnel to operate all aspects of the business as it prepares to launch commercial operations. Commercialization Fisker currently anticipates commencing production of the Fisker Ocean in the fourth quarter of 2022, with initial customer deliveries in late 2022 at the earliest. Production commencement is dependent upon Fisker entering into definitive platform sharing agreements with one or more industry-leading OEMs and/or tier-one automotive suppliers. Failure to enter into these agreements timely could result in being unable to begin production in the timeframe anticipated. As of March 19, 2021, we have received over 13,300 retail reservations and 700 fleet reservations. This is after accounting for about 1,100 retail customers who have canceled over time. Fisker has obtained over 57,000 indications of interest through the Flexee app (meaning the Flexee App has been downloaded and the potential purchaser has provided a contact phone number) and internet, reflecting the significant public interest in the Fisker Ocean. Fisker plans to initially market its vehicles through its direct-to-consumer sales model, leveraging its proprietary Flexee app, which will serve as a one-stop-shop for all components of its EMaaS business model. Over time, Fisker plans to develop Fisker Experience Centers in select cities in North America and Europe, which will enable prospective customers to experience Fisker vehicles through test drives and virtual and augmented reality. Fisker also intends to enter, in each launch market, into third-party service partnerships with credible vehicle service organizations with established service facilities, operations and technicians. These companies’ services will be integrated into and booked via the Flexee app in order to create a hassle-free, app-based service experience for Fisker’s customers delivered at home, at work, or with a pick-up and delivery 56 Index to Financial Statements service booked online. For North America and United Kingdom, as examples, Fisker has entered into non-exclusive Memorandum of Understandings with divisions of Cox Automotive related to fleet management services. Fisker will continue to seek opportunities to build the service partnership model. Over time, Fisker aims to transform the EV sales model through the flexible lease model, under which customers will be able to utilize a vehicle on a month-to-month basis at an anticipated cost of $379 per month for the base model, with the ability to terminate the lease or upgrade their vehicle at any time. Development of a fleet of high value, sustainable EVs will allow Fisker to offer these flexible lease options to capture more customers. Fisker intends to require a non-refundable up-front payment of $3,000 under the flexible lease model, which the Company believes will reduce its cash flow risk and incentivize customers to keep their vehicles for a period of time. Fisker anticipates that, over time, it will acquire a substantial fleet of used EVs available for sale or further flexible lease by Fisker, which it believes will enhance its ability to maintain its premium brand and pricing. Fisker believes its digital, direct-to-consumer sales model reflects today’s changing consumer preferences and is less capital intensive and expensive than the traditional automotive sales models. Fisker’s commercialization strategy is, however, relatively novel for the car industry, which has historically relied on extensive advertising and marketing, as well as relationships with physical car dealership networks. Should Fisker’s assumptions about the commercialization of its vehicles prove overly optimistic or if the Company is unable to develop, obtain or maintain the direct-to-consumer marketing or service technology upon which its prospective customer base would rely, Fisker may incur delays to its ability to commercialize the Fisker Ocean. This may also lead Fisker to make changes in its commercialization plans, which could result in unanticipated marketing delays or cost overruns, which could in turn adversely impact margins and cash flows or require Fisker to change its pricing. Further, to the extent that Fisker doesn’t generate the margins it expects upon commercialization of the Fisker Ocean, Fisker may be required to raise additional debt or equity capital, which may not be available or may only be available on terms that are onerous to Fisker and its stockholders. Regulatory Landscape Fisker operates in an industry that is subject to and benefits from environmental regulations, which have generally become more stringent over time, particularly across developed markets. Regulations in Fisker’s target markets include economic incentives to purchasers of EVs, tax credits for EV manufacturers, and economic penalties that may apply to a car manufacturer based on its fleet-wide emissions ratings. See “ Information about Fisker—Government Regulation and Credits .” For example, a federal tax credit of $7,500 may be available to U.S. purchasers of Fisker vehicles, which would bring the effective estimated purchase price of the base Fisker Ocean model to approximately $30,000. Further, the registration and sale of Zero Emission Vehicles (“ZEVs”) in California will earn Fisker ZEV credits, which it may be able to sell to other OEMs or tier-one automotive suppliers seeking to access the state’s market. Several other U.S. states have adopted similar standards. In the European Union, where European car manufacturers are penalized for excessive fleet-wide emissions on the one hand and incentivized to produce low emission vehicles on the other, Fisker believes it will have the opportunity to monetize the ZEV technology through fleet emissions pooling arrangements with car manufacturers that may not otherwise meet their CO2 emissions targets. While Fisker expects environmental regulations to provide a tailwind to its growth, it is possible for certain regulations to result in margin pressures. For example, regulations that effectively impose EV production quotas on auto manufacturers may lead to an oversupply of EVs, which in turn could promote price decreases. As a pure play EV company, Fisker’s margins could be particularly and adversely impacted by such regulatory developments. Trade restrictions and tariffs, while historically minimal between the European Union and the United States where most of Fisker’s production and sales are expected, are subject to unknown and unpredictable change that could impact Fisker’s ability to meet projected sales or margins. Basis of Presentation Fisker currently conducts its business through one operating segment. As a pre-revenue company with no commercial operations, Fisker’s activities to date have been limited and were conducted primarily in the United 57 Index to Financial Statements States and its historical results are reported under United States generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) and in U.S. dollars. Upon commencement of commercial operations, Fisker expects to expand its global operations substantially, including in the USA and the European Union, and as a result Fisker expects its future results to be sensitive to foreign currency transaction and translation risks and other financial risks that are not reflected in its historical financial statements. As a result, Fisker expects that the financial results it reports for periods after it begins commercial operations will not be comparable to the financial results included in this Form 10-K or those incorporated by reference from the proxy statement. Components of Results of Operations Fisker is an early stage company and its historical results may not be indicative of its future results for reasons that may be difficult to anticipate. Accordingly, the drivers of Fisker’s future financial results, as well as the components of such results, may not be comparable to Fisker’s historical or projected results of operations. Revenues Fisker has not begun commercial operations and currently does not generate any revenue. Once Fisker commences production and commercialization of its vehicles, it expects that the significant majority of its revenue will be initially derived from direct sales of Fisker Ocean SUVs and, subsequently, from flexible leases of its vehicles. In 2021, Fisker launched its merchandise “Fisker Edition” where it sells direct to consumers Fisker branded apparel and goods. While merchandise sales are not intended to be significant portion of Fisker’s results once production of vehicles begins, it will generate revenue pre-production. Cost of Goods Sold To date, Fisker has not recorded cost of goods sold, as it has not recorded commercial revenue. Once Fisker commences the commercial production and sale of its vehicles, it expects cost of goods sold to include mainly vehicle components and parts, including batteries, direct labor costs, amortized tooling costs and capitalized costs associated with the Magna warrants, and reserves for estimated warranty expenses. Related to the 2021 launch of “Fisker Edition” apparel and goods, Fisker will realize cost of goods sold. General and Administrative Expense General and administrative expenses consist mainly of personnel-related expenses for Fisker’s executive and other administrative functions and expenses for outside professional services, including legal, accounting and other advisory services. Fisker is rapidly expanding its personnel headcount, in anticipation of the start of production of its vehicles. Accordingly, Fisker expects its general and administrative expenses to increase significantly in the near term and for the foreseeable future. For example, the company expects general and administrative expenses, excluding stock-based compensation expenses (refer to non-GAAP financial measure discussed below), in the year ended December 31, 2021 to be in the range of $25-$35 million as compared to $22.3 million in the year ended December 31, 2020. Upon commencement of commercial operations, Fisker also expects general and administrative expenses to include facilities, marketing and advertising costs. Research and Development Expense To date, Fisker’s research and development expenses have consisted primarily of external engineering services in connection with the design of the Fisker Ocean model and development of the first prototype. As Fisker ramps up for commercial operations, it anticipates that research and development expenses will increase for the foreseeable future as the Company expands its hiring of engineers and designers and continues to invest in new vehicle model design and development of technology. For example, the company expects research and 58 Index to Financial Statements development expenses, excluding stock-based compensation expenses (refer to non-GAAP financial measure discussed below), in the year ended December 31, 2021 to be in the range of $185—$205 million as compared to $21.1 million in the year ended December 31, 2020. Income Tax Expense / Benefit Fisker’s income tax provision consists of an estimate for U.S. federal and state income taxes based on enacted rates, as adjusted for allowable credits, deductions, uncertain tax positions, changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities, and changes in the tax law. Fisker maintains a valuation allowance against the full value of its U.S. and state net deferred tax assets because Fisker believes the recoverability of the tax assets is not more likely than not. Results of Operations Comparison of the Year Ended December 31, 2020 to the Year Ended December 31, 2019 The following table sets forth Fisker’s historical operating results for the periods indicated: n.m. = not meaningful. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses increased by $18.6 million or 514% from $3.6 million during year ended December 31, 2019 to $22.2 million during year ended December 31, 2020, primarily due to increased salaried employee headcount, transaction-related expenses of $5 million, including $3.5 million in success fees related to the issuance of our convertible security in July 2020, and legal costs of $5.3 million. General and administrative expenses includes stock-based compensation expense of $377,000 and $30,000 for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. On March 18, 2021, the Board of Directors of Fisker, approved, effective as of March 15, 2021, at the request of Dr. Geeta Gupta, the Company’s Chief Financial Officer, an 82% decrease in Dr. Gupta’s annual base salary from $325,000 to $58,240 which is California’s minimum annual wage. 59 Index to Financial Statements Research and Development Research and development expenses increased by $14 million or 202% from $7 million during the year ended December 31, 2019 to $21 million during the year ended December 31, 2020. The increase by $14 million primarily relates to higher headcount in research and development and payments to suppliers. Research and development expenses includes stock-based compensation expense of $333,000 and $55,000 for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Interest Expense Interest expense was $1.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2020 and $0.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2019. The $1.4 million increase reflected the issuance of convertible bridge notes, starting in the second half of 2019 through the first nine months of 2020. Change in Fair Value of Derivatives and Convertible Security The change in fair value of embedded derivatives and convertible security amounted to $10.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to $0.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2019, reflecting the change in value of the embedded derivative relating to Fisker’s convertible bridge notes and convertible security, which was issued in July 2020. The bridge notes and convertible security converted into Class A common shares at the close of the Business Combination. Foreign Currency Gain (Loss) Fisker recorded immaterial foreign currency gains or losses during the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019. In 2021, Fisker expects its EUR denominated transactions associated with our foreign operations and services provided by suppliers will increase significantly and will subject Fisker to greater fluctuation in realized gain and losses from foreign currencies. Net Loss Net loss was $54.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2020, an increase of $43.7 million or 402% from $10.9 million during the year ended December 31, 2019, for the reasons discussed above. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of the date of this Form 10-K, Fisker has yet to generate any revenue from its business operations. To date, Fisker has funded its capital expenditure and working capital requirements through equity and convertible notes, as further discussed below. Fisker’s ability to successfully commence commercial operations and expand its business will depend on many factors, including its working capital needs, the availability of equity or debt financing and, over time, its ability to generate cash flows from operations. As of December 31, 2020, Fisker’s cash and cash equivalents amounted to $991 million and no debt outstanding. Fisker expects its capital expenditures and working capital requirements to increase substantially in 2021, as it progresses toward production of the Fisker Ocean EV model, develop its customer support and marketing infrastructure and expand its research and development efforts. For example, Fisker expects cash usage to fund capital expenditures and other investing activities to be in the range of $210 million to $240 million in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021 compared to $677,000 in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020. Fisker believes that its cash on hand following the consummation of the Business Combination will be sufficient to meet its working capital and capital expenditure requirements for a period of at least twelve months from the date 60 Index to Financial Statements of this Form 10-K and sufficient to fund its operations until it commences production of the Fisker Ocean. Fisker may, however, need additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other developments, including unanticipated delays in negotiations with OEMs and tier-one automotive suppliers or other suppliers, supply chain challenges, disruptions due to COVID-19, competitive pressures, and regulatory developments, among other developments such as the collaboration on “Project PEAR” (Personal Electric Automotive Revolution) with Hon Hai Technology Group announced on February 24, 2021. To the extent that Fisker’s current resources are insufficient to satisfy its cash requirements, Fisker may need to seek additional equity or debt financing. If the financing is not available, or if the terms of financing are less desirable than Fisker expects, Fisker may be forced to decrease its level of investment in product development or scale back its operations, which could have an adverse impact on its business and financial prospects. Cash Flows The following table provides a summary of Fisker’s cash flow data for the periods indicated: Cash Flows used in Operating Activities Fisker’s cash flows used in operating activities to date have been primarily comprised of costs related to research and development, payroll and other general and administrative activities. As Fisker continues to accelerate hiring in line with development and production of the Ocean, Fisker expects its cash used in operating activities to increase significantly before it starts to generate any material cash flows from its business. Operating lease commitments at December 31, 2020 will result in cash payments of $0.7 million in 2021 and $2.2 million after 2021. Fisker’s new headquarter, Inception, located in Manhattan Beach, California, will commence in the first quarter of 2021 resulting incremental operating lease commitments of $1.2 million for the remainder of 2021, $3.8 million for 2022, and $15.9 million for 2023 and thereafter. It is expected that Fisker will execute a new lease in Europe and at least one new lease for a U.S.-based experience center. In total, Fisker is projecting to use cash in excess of $210 million for combined SG&A and R&D activities during 2021. Net cash used in operating activities was $38 million during the year ended December 31, 2020, down from $7.3 million net cash used during the year ended December 31, 2019. Cash Flows used in Investing Activities Fisker’s cash flows from investing activities, to date, have been comprised mainly of purchases of property and equipment and have not been material. Fisker expects these costs to increase substantially in 2021 as significant expenditures for manufacturing and development, testing and validation, tooling, manufacturing equipment, software licenses, and IT infrastructure are anticipated to exceed $210 million of which we expect at least 50% is denominated in foreign currencies, subject to changes as we finalize our supplier selections in 2021. Fisker had $0.7 million of investing cash flow activity during the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to $14,000 of cash used during the year ended December 31, 2019. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Through December 31, 2020, Fisker has financed its operations primarily through the sale of equity securities, and, to a lesser extent, convertible notes. 61 Index to Financial Statements Net cash from financing activities was $1,028 million during the year ended December 31, 2020, reflecting mainly the proceeds from recapitalization of Spartan shares, net of redemptions and issuance costs, of $976 million, issuance of $46.5 million in convertible equity securities (net of success fees of $3.5 million), and convertible bridge notes of $5.4 million. Net cash from financing activities was $3.6 million in 2019, reflecting mainly proceeds from the issuance of convertible notes. As of December 31, 2020, Fisker has outstanding public and Spartan Energy sponsor warrants to acquire 27,751,587 Class A common shares at $11.50 per share. Any significant volume of exercise activity by the warrant holders would result in material proceeds from financing activities. On March 19, 2021, the Company announced that it will redeem all of its outstanding warrants (the “Public Warrants”) to purchase shares of the Company’s Class A Common Stock, par value $0.00001 per share (the “Common Stock”), that were issued under the Warrant Agreement, dated August 9, 2018 (the “Warrant Agreement”), by and between the Company (f/k/a Spartan Energy Acquisition Corp.) and Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company, as warrant agent (the “Warrant Agent”), as part of the units sold in the Company’s initial public offering (the “IPO”), for a redemption price of $0.01 per Public Warrant (the “Redemption Price”), that remain outstanding at 5:00 p.m. New York City time on April 22, 2021 (the “Redemption Date”). Warrants to purchase Common Stock that were issued under the Warrant Agreement in a private placement simultaneously with the IPO are no longer outstanding and are not subject to this redemption. In addition, in accordance with the Warrant Agreement, the Company’s board of directors has elected to require that, upon delivery of the notice of redemption, all Public Warrants are to be exercised only on a “cashless basis.” Accordingly, holders may no longer exercise Public Warrants and receive Common Stock in exchange for payment in cash of the $11.50 per warrant exercise price. Instead, a holder exercising a Public Warrant will be deemed to pay the $11.50 per warrant exercise price by the surrender of 0.5046 of a share of Common Stock that such holder would have been entitled to receive upon a cash exercise of a Public Warrant. Accordingly, by virtue of the cashless exercise of the Public Warrants, exercising warrant holders will receive 0.4954 of a share of Common Stock for each Public Warrant surrendered for exercise. Any Public Warrants (including Public Warrants that are included in outstanding units) that remain unexercised at 5:00 p.m. New York City time on the Redemption Date will be delisted, void and no longer exercisable, and the holders will have no rights with respect to those Public Warrants, except to receive the Redemption Price (or as otherwise described in the redemption notice for holders who hold their Public Warrants in “street name”) of $0.01 per outstanding warrant. In addition, the 9,360,000 warrants to purchase Common Stock that were originally issued under the Warrant Agreement in a private placement simultaneously with the IPO were exercised by Spartan Energy Acquisition Corp. on a cashless basis for 4,907,329 shares of Common Stock during the first quarter of 2021 and are no longer outstanding and not subject to this redemption. Since January 1, 2021, the Company has received cash proceeds of $89 million upon the exercise of 7,741,787 Public Warrants. As of March 19, 2021, there were 10,658,187 unexercised warrants. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Fisker is not a party to any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined under SEC rules. Non-GAAP Financial Measure The accompanying table references non-GAAP adjusted loss from operations. This non-GAAP financial measures differs from the directly comparable GAAP financial measures due to adjustments made to exclude stock-based compensation expense. This non-GAAP financial measures is not a substitute for or superior to measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to any other performance measures derived in accordance with GAAP. The Company believes that presenting this non-GAAP financial measure provides useful supplemental information to investors about the Company in understanding and evaluating its operating results, enhancing the overall understanding of its past performance and future prospects, and allowing for greater transparency with respect to key financial metrics used by its management in financial and operational-decision making. However, there are a number of limitations related to the use of a non-GAAP measure and its nearest GAAP equivalents. For example, other 62 Index to Financial Statements companies may calculate non-GAAP measures differently, or may use other measures to calculate their financial performance, and therefore any non-GAAP measures the Company uses may not be directly comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. Therefore, both GAAP financial measures of Fisker’s financial performance and the respective non-GAAP measures should be considered together. Please see the reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measure in the tables below. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Fisker’s financial statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. In the preparation of these financial statements, Fisker is required to use judgment in making estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported expenses incurred during the reporting periods. Fisker considers an accounting judgment, estimate or assumption to be critical when (1) the estimate or assumption is complex in nature or requires a high degree of judgment and (2) the use of different judgments, estimates and assumptions could have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. Fisker’s significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 to its audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Because Fisker is a pre-revenue company without commercial operations, management believes it has a limited number of critical accounting policies or estimates, which will change over time as Fisker begins selling vehicles in the future. Stock-Based Compensation Fisker recognizes the cost of share-based awards granted to employees, nonemployees, and directors based on the estimated grant-date fair value of the awards. Cost is recognized on a straight-line basis over the service period, which is generally the vesting period of the award, except for the capitalization of costs associated with the Magna warrants. Fisker reverses previously recognized costs for unvested options in the period that forfeitures occur. Fisker determines the fair value of stock options using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, which is impacted by the following assumptions: • Expected Term —Fisker uses the simplified method when calculating the expected term due to insufficient historical exercise data. • Expected Volatility —As Fisker’s shares have actively traded for a short period of time subsequent to the Business Combination, the volatility is based on a benchmark of comparable companies within the automotive and energy storage industries. • Expected Dividend Yield —The dividend rate used is zero as Fisker has never paid any cash dividends on common stock and does not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. • Risk-Free Interest Rate —The interest rates used are based on the implied yield available on U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issues with an equivalent remaining term equal to the expected life of the award. Long-Lived Asset Impairment As of December 31, 2020, our long-lived assets were comprised primarily of $0.9 million, $2.5 million and $58 million of net property, plant and equipment, operating lease right-of-use assets, and intangible asset, respectively. 63 Index to Financial Statements We test long-lived assets for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset group may not be recoverable. Recoverability of an asset group is assessed by comparing its carrying amount to the estimated future undiscounted net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset group through operation or disposition, calculated utilizing the lowest level of identifiable cash flows. If this comparison indicates that the carrying amount of an asset group is not recoverable, we are required to recognize an impairment loss. The impairment loss is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its estimated fair value. In estimating the recoverability of asset groups for purposes of our long-lived asset impairment testing when indicators or events are present, we will utilize future cash flow projections that are generally developed internally. As of December 31, 2020, Fisker Inc. does not generate revenues and will not generate revenue from vehicle sales until late 2022. Our revenues will be limited to minimal merchandise sales in 2021, which is not expected to be our primary source of revenues once production begins. Any estimates of future cash flow projections necessarily involve predicting unknown future circumstances and events and require significant management judgments and estimates. In arriving at our cash flow projections, we will consider our approved budgets and business plans, existing paid reservations and projected reservations, estimated asset holding periods, and other factors. Determining the future cash flows of an asset group involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain, which is heightened during our pre-revenue period. These estimates and assumptions include revenue and expense growth rates and operating margins used to calculate projected future cash flows. Future events may indicate differences from management’s current judgments and estimates which could, in turn, result in future impairments. Future events that may result in impairment charges include not achieving program gateways, regulatory standards, detailed development and manufacturing agreements or delays in production milestones, the start of production and/or ramp up production or a reduction in projected sales volumes. Significant adverse changes in our future revenues and/or operating margins caused by higher-than-expected bill-of-material costs, as well as other events and circumstances, including, but not limited to, increased competition and changing economic or market conditions, could result in changes in estimated future cash flows and the determination that long-lived assets are impaired. No indicators of impairment are present at December 31, 2020. Emerging Growth Company Status Section 102(b)(1) of the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (“JOBS Act”) exempts emerging growth companies from being required to comply with new or revised financial accounting standards until private companies are required to comply with the new or revised financial accounting standards. The JOBS Act provides that a company can choose not to take advantage of the extended transition period and comply with the requirements that apply to non-emerging growth companies, and any such election to not take advantage of the extended transition period is irrevocable. Fisker is an “emerging growth company” as defined in Section 2(a) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and has elected to take advantage of the benefits of the extended transition period for new or revised financial accounting standards. Fisker expects to continue to take advantage of the benefits of the extended transition period, although it may decide to early adopt such new or revised accounting standards to the extent permitted by such standards. This may make it difficult or impossible to compare Fisker’s financial results with the financial results of another public company that is either not an emerging growth company or is an emerging growth company that has chosen not to take advantage of the extended transition period exemptions because of the potential differences in accounting standards used. 64 Index to Financial Statements Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 to the audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for more information about recent accounting pronouncements, the timing of their adoption, and Fisker’s assessment, to the extent it has made one, of their potential impact on Fisker’s financial condition and its results of operations and cash flows. 65 Index to Financial Statements Item 7A.