 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) is designed to provide information that is supplemental to, and shall be read together with, the consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes contained in this Form 10-K. Information in MD&A is intended to assist the reader in obtaining an understanding of (i) the consolidated financial statements, (ii) the Company’s business segments and how the results of those segments impact the Company’s results of operations and financial condition as a whole and (iii) how certain accounting principles affect the Company’s consolidated financial statements. Executive Summary The Company is a leading global manufacturer and supplier of (i) vehicles and equipment for maintenance and infrastructure end-markets, including sewer cleaners, industrial vacuum loaders, safe-digging trucks, street sweepers, waterblasting equipment, road-marking and line-removal equipment, dump truck bodies and trailers and (ii) public safety equipment, such as vehicle lightbars and sirens, industrial signaling equipment, public warning systems and general alarm/public address systems. In addition, we engage in the sale of parts, service and repair, equipment rentals and training as part of a comprehensive aftermarket offering to our customer base. We operate 15 manufacturing facilities in five countries and provide products and integrated solutions to municipal, governmental, industrial and commercial customers in all regions of the world. As described in Note 17 – Segment Information to the accompanying consolidated financial statements, the Company’s business units are organized in two reportable segments: the Environmental Solutions Group and the Safety and Security Systems Group. COVID-19 Update We continue to closely monitor the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on all aspects of our business, including how it is affecting our employees, customers, supply chain and distribution network. In February 2020, we established a cross-functional task force to monitor ongoing developments, implement mitigation plans and centrally coordinate our response to the pandemic. Generally, our businesses are considered to be essential in supporting critical infrastructure needs and public safety. While certain of our operations have been affected by temporary facility closures, either due to government-issued mandates or other concerns related to COVID-19, our facilities have remained substantially operational to date. Given that, our primary focus has been on the safety and well-being of our employees. We were, and continue to be, proactive in procuring personal protective equipment and sanitizing supplies for our facilities. We also implemented a series of enhanced health and safety measures across the organization, such as reconfiguring work spaces and staggering manufacturing shifts to allow for social distancing, introducing temperature screening protocols, enhancing facility cleaning, limiting non-essential travel and restricting the number of visitors to our facilities. Further, we established remote working arrangements, where possible, supported by the use of virtual meeting capabilities. As many of the government-mandated stay-at-home orders were lifted throughout the course of the second quarter, the majority of our telecommuting employees have gradually returned to the workplace, following our enhanced safety protocols. We also modified our employee attendance policies and provided employees with additional paid time off in order to encourage those who were sick, had health concerns, or were otherwise adversely impacted by the pandemic, to remain at home. As a result of the combination of these factors and the enactment of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (the “CARES Act”), we experienced a decrease in labor availability at several of our facilities during the second quarter. While labor availability improved during the third and fourth quarters, we continued to experience labor-related disruptions, including several COVID-19-related quarantine absences. This resulted in a variety of challenges in running our operations efficiently, and we adjusted our production schedules, accordingly. We saw similar issues within our supply chain, with certain suppliers temporarily shut down. Our procurement teams have worked diligently with our key suppliers to effectively secure safety stock and manage inventory levels and, in some circumstances, have identified alternate suppliers and in-sourcing opportunities in order to mitigate the impact of supply-chain disruptions on production. The government-mandated stay-at-home orders and travel and visitor restrictions significantly impacted the Company’s sales and marketing activities during the second quarter, with limited ability to attend trade shows and conduct equipment demonstrations and in-person sales meetings. In addition, certain customers were unable to take delivery of equipment given travel restrictions and the limited personnel that they had available. These factors significantly impacted order intake and operating results during the second quarter. However, as the second quarter progressed, many of the government-mandated restrictions that were imposed in states across the U.S. started to ease, albeit at different times, and at different levels. With business-related travel steadily increasing during the third and fourth quarters, our sales teams and dealer partners have been able to increase the amount of equipment demonstrations. That has helped contribute to sequential order improvement, with our 15 third quarter orders up $65 million, or 32%, compared to the second quarter, and our fourth quarter orders up $10 million, or 4%, compared to the third quarter. The timing of production and realization of our backlog, which totaled $304 million as of December 31, 2020, may be delayed or otherwise negatively impacted by our ability to continue to run our operations as an essential business during the COVID-19 pandemic and/or to return to our normal production capacity, faced with the ongoing potential for adverse impacts associated with decreased labor availability, the temporary suspension of production activity mandated or otherwise made necessary by governmental authorities, weakened demand, supply chain disruptions, or other production delays. Such factors have adversely affected the comparability of our operating and financial results for the year ended December 31, 2020 with the corresponding prior year, and may continue to impact comparability in subsequent years. We are responding accordingly and taking steps to manage through these challenging times, including implementing measures to reduce costs and manage our capital prudently. At the same time, we are maintaining our focus on our eighty-twenty improvement initiatives. In an effort to mitigate the impact of these pandemic-related operational challenges, we implemented the following cost-saving actions: • Temporary salary reductions ranging from 20% to 25% during the second quarter for approximately 60 members of the Company’s enterprise leadership team, including executive officers; • Temporary reduction in Board of Directors fees ranging from 22.5% to 25% during the second quarter; • Roll-back of 2020 merit-based salary increases for most domestic salaried employees, effective in the third quarter; • Temporary furloughs of approximately 400 employees, primarily within the second quarter; • Permanent reductions in force impacting approximately 200 employees; and • Limited discretionary spending, primarily within Selling, engineering, general and administrative (“SEG&A”) expenses, including travel and entertainment expenses. We are continuing to approach the uncertainty and challenges with resolve and from a position of strength given our current financial position. As of December 31, 2020, we had $82 million of cash and cash equivalents and $280 million of availability for borrowings under our five-year revolving credit facility, which we executed in July 2019. However, the overall magnitude of the impact of the pandemic on our operating and financial results remains uncertain and will largely depend on the duration of the pandemic and the measures implemented in response, as well as the effect on our customers and suppliers. Given these factors, we are unable to reliably forecast the effect that the pandemic will have on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, which could be material. Operating and Financial Performance in 2020 Despite the challenges created by the pandemic, the Company was able to sustain a high level of financial performance and make progress against several long-term objectives in 2020. Included among the Company’s highlights in 2020 were the following: • For the year ended December 31, 2020, we reported operating income and income from continuing operations of $131.4 million and $96.1 million, respectively. • On a consolidated basis, we reported adjusted EBITDA* of $182.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, which translated to an adjusted EBITDA margin* of 16.1%. That return was above the high end of our target range, and represented a 40-basis point year-over-year improvement. • Cash flow from continuing operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2020 was $136.3 million, an increase of $32.9 million, or 32%, over the prior year. • With the increased operating cash flow, we ended the year with $82 million of cash and $280 million of availability for borrowings under our $500 million credit facility, which was executed in July 2019. The five-year facility can be increased by an additional $250 million for acquisitions. • With our strong balance sheet, positive operating cash flow, and capacity under our revolving credit facility, we are well positioned to continue to invest in internal growth initiatives, pursue strategic acquisitions and consider ways to return value to stockholders, as we did during 2020: ◦ Our capital expenditure for 2020 was approximately $30 million, as we continued to make strategic investments for the future by purchasing new machinery and equipment aimed at gaining operating efficiencies, and expanding capacity at several of our production facilities, including our locations in Streator, Illinois, Rugby, North Dakota, Lake Crystal, Minnesota, and Billings, Montana. 16 ◦ We have also continued to invest in new product development and are encouraged that these efforts will provide additional opportunities to further diversify our customer base, penetrate new end-markets or gain access to new geographic regions. ◦ In June, we completed the acquisition of certain assets and operations of Public Works Equipment and Supply, Inc. (“PWE”), a distributor of maintenance and infrastructure equipment covering North Carolina, South Carolina and parts of Tennessee. The acquisition added a third location to our current footprint in this population-dense region which we anticipate will allow us to better serve our customers and accelerate the growth of our aftermarket business. ◦ We demonstrated our commitment to returning value to stockholders by paying cash dividends of $19.4 million, and spending $13.7 million repurchasing shares under our authorized repurchase program. • Our eighty-twenty improvement initiatives remain a critical part of our culture and we continue to focus on reducing product costs and improving manufacturing efficiencies across all our businesses. • To highlight our ongoing focus on operating in a socially responsible and sustainable manner, we published our inaugural annual Sustainability Report in October 2020. * The Company uses adjusted earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (“adjusted EBITDA”) and the ratio of adjusted EBITDA to net sales (“adjusted EBITDA margin”) as additional measures which are representative of its underlying performance and to improve the comparability of results across reporting periods. Refer to the Results of Operations section for further discussion regarding these non-GAAP metrics and a reconciliation of each to the most comparable GAAP measure for each of the periods presented. 17 Results of Operations The following table summarizes our Consolidated Statements of Operations as of, and for the years ended, December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, and illustrates the key financial indicators used to assess our consolidated financial results: (a) The Company uses adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin as additional measures which are representative of its underlying performance and to improve the comparability of results across reporting periods. We believe that investors use versions of these metrics in a similar manner. For these reasons, the Company believes that adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin are meaningful metrics to investors in evaluating the Company’s underlying financial performance. Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP measure that represents the total of income from continuing operations, interest expense, hearing loss settlement charges, acquisition and integration-related expenses, restructuring activity, coronavirus-related expenses, purchase accounting effects, other income/expense, income tax expense, depreciation and amortization expense and the impact of adoption of a new lease accounting standard, where applicable. Adjusted EBITDA margin is a non-GAAP measure that represents the total of income from continuing operations, interest expense, hearing loss settlement charges, acquisition and integration-related expenses, restructuring activity, coronavirus-related expenses, purchase accounting effects, other income/expense, income tax expense, depreciation and amortization expense and the impact of adoption of a new lease accounting standard, where applicable, divided by net sales for the applicable period(s). Other companies may use different methods to calculate adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin. A discussion of changes in the Company’s financial condition and results of operations during the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the year ended December 31, 2018 has been omitted from this Annual Report on Form 10-K, but may be found under the heading “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K the year ended December 31, 2019, filed with the SEC on February 27, 2020. Year ended December 31, 2020 vs. year ended December 31, 2019 Net sales Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2020 decreased by $90.5 million, or 7%, compared to the prior year. Within the Environmental Solutions Group, net sales decreased by $77.1 million, or 8%, largely due to decreases in shipments of safe-digging trucks, industrial vacuum loaders, sweepers, dump bodies, waterblasting equipment, sewer cleaners, trailers and snow removal equipment of $26.4 million, $22.0 million, $20.7 million, $7.8 million, $7.5 million, $6.7 million, $4.7 million and $3.2 million, respectively. Partially offsetting these reductions was an increase in shipments of road-marking and line removal equipment and refuse equipment of $12.4 million and $8.0 million, respectively. Within the Safety and Security Systems 18 Group, net sales decreased by $13.4 million, or 6%, primarily due to reductions in sales of industrial signaling equipment, warning systems and public safety equipment of $7.9 million, $4.0 million and $1.7 million, respectively. Cost of sales For the year ended December 31, 2020, cost of sales decreased by $61.3 million, or 7%, compared to the prior year, largely due to a decrease of $58.0 million, or 8%, within the Environmental Solutions Group, primarily attributable to lower sales volumes and a favorable foreign currency translation impact of $1.4 million, partially offset by the recognition of additional cost of sales from the MRL acquisition. Within the Safety and Security Systems Group, cost of sales decreased by $3.3 million, or 2%, largely due to lower sales volumes. Gross profit For the year ended December 31, 2020, gross profit decreased by $29.2 million, or 9%, compared to the prior year, primarily due to reductions of $19.1 million and $10.1 million within the Environmental Solutions Group and the Safety and Security Systems Group, respectively. Gross margin for the year ended December 31, 2020 was 26.0%, compared to 26.4% in the prior year, primarily driven by reductions within the Safety and Security Group and Environmental Solutions Group of 220 basis points and 10 basis points, respectively. Selling, engineering, general and administrative (“SEG&A”) expenses For the year ended December 31, 2020, SEG&A expenses decreased by $14.4 million, or 8%, primarily due to reductions in SEG&A expenses within the Safety and Security Systems Group, the Environmental Solutions Group and Corporate of $7.3 million, $3.9 million and $3.2 million, respectively. As a percentage of net sales, SEG&A expenses decreased from 14.2% in the prior year, to 14.0% in the current year. Operating income Operating income for the year ended December 31, 2020 decreased by $15.7 million, or 11%, compared to the prior year, primarily driven by reductions of $15.1 million and $3.1 million within the Environmental Solutions Group and Safety and Security Systems Group, respectively, partially offset by a $2.5 million decrease in Corporate expenses. Consolidated operating margin for the year ended December 31, 2020 was 11.6%, compared to 12.0% in the prior year. Interest expense Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2020 decreased by $2.2 million, or 28%, compared to the prior year, largely due to lower interest rates in comparison to the prior year. Other expense, net For the year ended December 31, 2020, Other expense, net, totaled $1.1 million of expense, largely due to the recognition of a $2.3 million charge associated with the withdrawal from a multi-employer pension plan, partially offset by $0.5 million of net periodic pension benefit and $0.4 million of foreign currency transaction gains. For the year ended December 31, 2019, Other expense, net, totaled $0.6 million of expense, largely due to $0.9 million of net periodic pension expense. Income tax expense The Company recognized income tax expense of $28.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to $30.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. The reduction in income tax expense in the current year was primarily due to lower earnings and a $1.9 million increase in excess tax benefits from stock compensation activity, partially offset by the non-recurrence of a $0.8 million tax benefit from the release of state deferred tax valuation allowance recognized in the prior year. The Company’s effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2020 was 22.9%, compared to 21.8% in 2019. For further discussion, see Note 10 – Income Taxes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Income from continuing operations Income from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2020 decreased by $12.3 million, or 11%, compared to the prior year, largely due to the aforementioned reduction in operating income and the $0.5 million increase in other expense, partially offset by the $2.2 million reduction in interest expense, and the $1.7 million decrease in income tax expense. 19 Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA for the year ended December 31, 2020 decreased by $9.1 million, or 5%, compared to the prior year. Adjusted EBITDA margin for the year ended December 31, 2020 was 16.1%, up from 15.7% in the prior year. The following table summarizes the Company’s adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin and reconciles income from continuing operations to adjusted EBITDA for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2020: (a) Coronavirus-related expenses relate to direct expenses incurred in connection with the Company's response to the coronavirus pandemic, that are incremental to, and separable from, normal operations. Such expenses primarily relate to incremental paid time off provided to employees and costs incurred to implement enhanced workplace safety protocols. (b) Purchase accounting effects represent the step-up in the valuation of equipment acquired in recent business combinations that was sold during the periods presented. (c) Adjustment to exclude recognition of a deferred gain associated with historical sale lease-back transactions. Effective with the adoption of the new lease accounting standard in 2019, recognition of this gain was eliminated. Environmental Solutions The following table summarizes the Environmental Solutions Group’s operating results as of, and for the years ended, December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018: Year ended December 31, 2020 vs. year ended December 31, 2019 Total orders decreased by $198.0 million, or 19%, for the year ended December 31, 2020. U.S. orders decreased by $181.1 million, or 22%, primarily due to reductions in orders for safe-digging trucks, sewer cleaners, street sweepers, industrial vacuum loaders and dump truck bodies of $59.2 million, $59.0 million, $29.8 million, $27.0 million and $9.6 million, respectively. Partially offsetting these reductions was a $9.1 million increase in orders for trailers. Non-U.S. orders decreased by $16.9 million, or 9%, primarily due to decreases in orders for safe-digging trucks, sewer cleaners and street sweepers of $9.3 20 million, $9.3 million and $9.2 million, respectively, and an unfavorable foreign currency translation impact of $1.3 million. Partially offsetting these reductions was a $12.2 million increase in orders for refuse trucks. Net sales decreased by $77.1 million, or 8%, for the year ended December 31, 2020. U.S. sales decreased by $65.5 million, or 8%, primarily due to decreases in shipments of industrial vacuum loaders, safe-digging trucks, sweepers, dump truck bodies, waterblasting equipment and trailers of $21.4 million, $18.1 million, $17.8 million, $7.4 million, $6.2 million and $4.7 million, respectively. In addition, aftermarkets revenues decreased by $2.5 million. Partially offsetting these reductions was a $10.8 increase in shipments of road-marking and line removal-equipment. Non-U.S. sales decreased by $11.6 million, or 6%, primarily due to decreases in shipments of safe-digging trucks, sewer cleaners, sweepers and snow-removal equipment of $8.3 million, $6.8 million, $2.9 million and $2.2 million, respectively, as well as a $1.5 million unfavorable foreign currency translation impact. Partially offsetting these reductions was an $8.0 million increase in sales of refuse trucks, and a $3.8 million improvement in aftermarket revenues. Cost of sales decreased by $58.0 million, or 8%, for the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily attributable to lower sales volumes and a $1.4 million favorable foreign currency translation impact, partially offset by the recognition of additional cost of sales from the MRL acquisition. Gross margin for the year ended December 31, 2020 was 23.3%, compared to 23.4% in the prior year, primarily due to a reduction in operating leverage with lower sales volumes. SEG&A expenses decreased by $3.9 million, or 4%, for the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily due to cost saving actions implemented in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, partially offset by the addition of expenses of businesses acquired in the prior year, and a $0.8 million increase in amortization expense. As a percentage of net sales, SEG&A expenses were 9.6% in the current year, compared to 9.3% in the prior year. Operating income decreased by $15.1 million, or 11%, for the year ended December 31, 2020, largely due to a $19.1 million reduction in gross profit and the recognition of $0.7 million of restructuring charges, partially offset by decreases in SEG&A expenses and acquisition-related costs of $3.9 million and $0.8 million, respectively. Backlog was $282.5 million at December 31, 2020, compared to $357.6 million at December 31, 2019. Safety and Security Systems The following table summarizes the Safety and Security Systems Group’s operating results as of, and for the years ended, December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018: Year ended December 31, 2020 vs. year ended December 31, 2019 Total orders decreased by $23.9 million, or 10%, for the year ended December 31, 2020. U.S. orders decreased by $15.4 million, or 11%, compared to the prior year, primarily due to reductions in orders for industrial signaling equipment, public safety equipment and warning systems of $7.8 million, $5.6 million and $2.0 million, respectively. Non-U.S. orders decreased by $8.5 million, or 10%, primarily due to reductions in orders for public safety equipment and industrial signaling equipment of $7.3 million and $2.5 million, respectively, partially offset by a $1.6 million improvement in orders for warning systems. Net sales decreased by $13.4 million, or 6%, for the year ended December 31, 2020. U.S. sales decreased by $15.0 million, or 10%, primarily driven by reductions in sales of public safety equipment, industrial signaling equipment and warning systems of $7.1 million, $6.1 million and $1.8 million, respectively. Non-U.S. sales increased by $1.6 million, or 2%, largely due to a $5.4 million increase in sales of public safety equipment, partially offset by reductions in sales of warning systems and industrial signaling equipment of $2.2 million and $1.8 million, respectively. 21 Cost of sales decreased by $3.3 million, or 2%, for the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily related to lower sales volumes. Gross margin for the year ended December 31, 2020 was 37.3%, compared to 39.5% in the prior year, with the decrease primarily attributable to unfavorable sales mix. SEG&A expenses decreased by $7.3 million, or 14%, for the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily as a result of cost-saving actions implemented in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as reductions in incentive-based compensation expense. As a percentage of net sales, SEG&A expenses decreased to 20.6% in the current year, from 22.6% in the prior year. Operating income decreased by $3.1 million, or 8%, for the year ended December 31, 2020, largely due to a $10.1 million reduction in gross profit and restructuring charges of $0.3 million, partially offset by the $7.3 million reduction in SEG&A expenses. Backlog was $21.4 million at December 31, 2020, compared to $29.3 million at December 31, 2019. Corporate Expense Corporate operating expenses were $28.4 million, $30.9 million and $25.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2020, corporate operating expenses decreased by $2.5 million, primarily due to reductions in incentive-based compensation expense and other employee-related costs, including the effects of cost-saving actions implemented in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, partially offset by a $0.4 million increase in acquisition and integration-related expenses. The Company’s hearing loss litigation has historically been managed by the Company’s legal staff resident at the corporate office and not by management at either segment. In accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 280, Segment Reporting, which provides that segment reporting should follow the management of the item and that certain expenses may be corporate expenses, these legal expenses (which are not part of the normal operating activities of any of our reportable segments) are reported and managed as corporate expenses. Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company uses its cash flow from operations to fund growth and to make capital investments that sustain its operations, reduce costs, or both. Beyond these uses, remaining cash is used to pay down debt, repurchase shares, fund dividend payments and make pension contributions. The Company may also choose to invest in the acquisition of businesses. In the absence of significant unanticipated cash demands, we believe that the Company’s existing cash balances, cash flow from operations and borrowings available under the 2019 Credit Agreement will provide funds sufficient for these purposes. The net cash flows associated with the Company’s rental equipment transactions are included in cash flow from operating activities. The Company’s cash and cash equivalents totaled $81.7 million, $31.6 million and $37.4 million as of December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. As of December 31, 2020, $24.6 million of cash and cash equivalents was held by foreign subsidiaries. Cash and cash equivalents held by subsidiaries outside the U.S. typically are held in the currency of the country in which it is located. The Company uses this cash to fund the operating activities of its foreign subsidiaries and for further investment in foreign operations. Generally, the Company has considered such cash to be permanently reinvested in its foreign operations and the Company’s current plans do not demonstrate a need to repatriate such cash to fund U.S. operations. However, in the event that these funds were needed to fund U.S. operations or to satisfy U.S. obligations, they generally could be repatriated. The repatriation of these funds may cause the Company to incur additional U.S. income tax expense, dependent on income tax laws and other circumstances at the time any such amounts were repatriated. Net cash provided by continuing operating activities totaled $136.3 million, $103.4 million and $92.8 million in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The $32.9 million, or 32%, increase in cash generated by continuing operating activities in 2020 compared to the prior year was primarily due to working capital timing differences, lower rental fleet investment, a $3.4 million reduction in income tax payments, deferral of $7.3 million of payroll tax payments, which are expected to be paid over the next two years, in accordance with the provisions of the CARES Act, lower incentive compensation payments, and a $3.1 million improvement resulting from reduced acquisition-related activity. Partially offsetting these improvements was a $7.1 million increase in pension-related payments. Net cash used for investing activities totaled $34.4 million, $84.4 million and $11.0 million in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. In each of the years presented, cash was used to fund the purchase of properties and equipment, with $29.7 million, $35.4 million and $14.1 million of capital expenditures in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Capital expenditures in 2020 and 2019 were higher due to the expansion of a number of the Company’s production facilities. In addition, as discussed 22 in Note 2 – Acquisitions, in 2020 the Company paid $6.2 million to acquire certain assets and operations of PWE and received $0.8 million as part of the finalization of certain post-closing adjustments in connection with the acquisition of MRL, which it acquired in 2019 for an initial $49.6 million, net of cash acquired. In 2018, the Company received an adjustment for working capital and other post-closing items in the amount of $3.0 million relating to the TBEI acquisition, which was completed in 2017. Net cash used for financing activities totaled $53.4 million, $24.6 million and $81.2 million in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. In 2020, the Company paid down $11.8 million of net borrowings under its revolving credit facility, funded cash dividends and share repurchases of $19.4 million and $13.7 million, respectively, and redeemed $9.1 million of stock in order to remit funds to tax authorities to satisfy employees’ tax withholdings following the vesting of stock-based compensation and the exercise of stock options. In 2019, the Company’s net borrowings increased by $7.4 million, primarily related to the funding of the acquisition of MRL. In addition, the Company funded payments of $10.3 million relating to acquisitions completed in 2016, paid cash dividends of $19.3 million, incurred $1.0 million of debt refinancing costs, repurchased $1.0 million of treasury stock, and redeemed $2.1 million of stock in order to remit funds to tax authorities to satisfy employees’ minimum tax withholdings following the vesting of stock-based compensation. In 2018, the Company repaid $62.1 million of net borrowings, funded cash dividends of $18.7 million, and repurchased $1.2 million of treasury stock. On July 30, 2019, the Company entered into the 2019 Credit Agreement, by and among the Company (the “U.S. Borrower”) and certain of its foreign subsidiaries (collectively, the “Borrowers”), Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as administrative agent, swingline lender and issuing lender, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as syndication agent, and the other lenders and parties signatory thereto. The 2019 Credit Agreement is a $500 million revolving credit facility, maturing on July 30, 2024, that provides for borrowings in the form of loans or letters of credit up to the aggregate availability under the facility, with a sub-limit of $75 million for letters of credit. The 2019 Credit Agreement allows for the Borrowers to borrow in denominations of U.S. Dollars, Canadian Dollars, Euros or British Pounds (with borrowings in non-U.S. currencies subject to a sublimit of $200 million). In addition, the Company may cause the commitments to increase by up to an additional $250 million, subject to the approval of the applicable lenders providing such additional financing. Borrowings under the 2019 Credit Agreement may be used for working capital and general corporate purposes, including acquisitions. The Company’s material domestic subsidiaries provide guarantees for all obligations of the Borrowers under the 2019 Credit Agreement, which is secured by a first priority security interest in (i) all existing or hereafter acquired domestic property and assets of the U.S. Borrower and material domestic subsidiaries, (ii) the stock or other equity interests in each of the material domestic subsidiaries and (iii) 65% of outstanding voting capital stock of certain first-tier foreign subsidiaries, subject to certain exclusions. Borrowings under the 2019 Credit Agreement bear interest, at the Company’s option, at a base rate or a LIBOR rate, plus, in each case, an applicable margin. The applicable margin ranges from zero to 0.75% for base rate borrowings and 1.00% to 1.75% for LIBOR borrowings. The Company must also pay a commitment fee to the lenders ranging between 0.10% to 0.25% per annum on the unused portion of the $500 million revolving credit facility along with other standard fees. Letter of credit fees are payable on outstanding letters of credit in an amount equal to the applicable LIBOR margin plus other customary fees. The Company is subject to certain net leverage ratio and interest coverage ratio financial covenants under the 2019 Credit Agreement that are to be measured at each fiscal quarter-end. The Company was in compliance with all such covenants as of December 31, 2020. The 2019 Credit Agreement also includes a series of “covenant holiday” periods, which allow for the temporary increase of the minimum net leverage ratio following the completion of a permitted acquisition, or a series of acquisitions, when the aggregate consideration over a period of twelve months exceeds $75 million. In addition, the 2019 Credit Agreement includes customary negative covenants, subject to certain exceptions, restricting or limiting the Company’s and its subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: (i) make non-ordinary course dispositions of assets; (ii) make certain fundamental business changes, such as mergers, consolidations or any similar combination; (iii) make restricted payments, including dividends and stock repurchases; (iv) incur indebtedness; (v) make certain loans and investments; (vi) create liens; (vii) transact with affiliates; (viii) enter into sale/leaseback transactions; (ix) make negative pledges; and (x) modify subordinated debt documents. Under the 2019 Credit Agreement, restricted payments, including dividends and stock repurchases, shall be permitted if (i) the Company’s leverage ratio is less than or equal to 3.25; (ii) the Company is in compliance with all other financial covenants; and (iii) there are no existing defaults under the 2019 Credit Agreement. If its leverage ratio is more than 3.25, the Company is still permitted to fund (i) up to $35 million of dividend payments and stock repurchases; and (ii) an incremental $50 million of other cash payments. 23 The 2019 Credit Agreement contains customary events of default. If an event of default occurs and is continuing, the Borrowers may be required immediately to repay all amounts outstanding under the 2019 Credit Agreement and the commitments from the lenders may be terminated. In connection with the execution of the 2019 Credit Agreement during the year ended December 31, 2019, the Company incurred $1.0 million of debt issuance costs. Such fees have been deferred and are being amortized over the five-year term. As of December 31, 2020, there was $209.4 million of cash drawn and $10.3 million of undrawn letters of credit under the 2019 Credit Agreement, with $280.3 million of net availability for borrowings. The following table summarizes the gross borrowings and gross payments under the Company’s revolving credit facilities: Aggregate maturities of total borrowings due amount to approximately $0.2 million in 2021, $0.2 million in 2022, $0.1 million in 2023, and $209.5 million in 2024. The weighted average interest rate on long-term borrowings was 1.7% at December 31, 2020. The Company paid interest of $5.4 million in 2020, $7.8 million in 2019 and $8.7 million in 2018. The Company paid income taxes of $22.3 million in 2020, $25.7 million in 2019 and $21.6 million in 2018. Cash dividends of $19.4 million, $19.3 million and $18.7 million were declared and paid to stockholders in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The Company anticipates that capital expenditures for 2021, including investments associated with certain ongoing plant expansions, will be in the range of $20 million to $25 million. The Company believes that its financial resources and major sources of liquidity, including cash flow from operations and borrowing capacity, will be adequate to meet its operating needs, capital needs and financial commitments. Contractual Obligations and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The following table summarizes the Company’s contractual obligations and payments due by period as of December 31, 2020: (a) Amounts represent estimated contractual interest payments on outstanding long-term debt. (b) Amounts include contractual obligations associated with lease arrangements with an initial term of twelve months or less, which are not recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. For further discussion, see Note 4 – Leases to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. (c) Purchase obligations primarily relate to commercial chassis and other contracts in the ordinary course of business. (d) The Company expects to contribute up to $4.3 million to the U.S. benefit plan and up to $1.4 million to the non-U.S. benefit plan in 2021, which represent the minimum required contributions. Future contributions to the plans will be based on such factors as (i) annual service cost, (ii) the financial return on plan assets, (iii) interest rate movements that affect discount rates applied to plan liabilities and (iv) the value of benefit payments made. Due to the high degree of uncertainty regarding the potential future cash outflows associated with these plans, the Company is unable to provide a reasonably reliable estimate of the amounts and periods in which any additional liabilities might be paid. (e) Represents the fair value of the contingent earn-out payment associated with the acquisition of MRL. For further discussion, see Note 2 – Acquisitions to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. (f) As of December 31, 2020, the Company had a liability of approximately $1.2 million for unrecognized tax benefits. For further discussion, see Note 10 – Income Taxes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Due to the uncertainties related to these tax matters, the Company generally cannot 24 make a reasonably reliable estimate of the period of cash settlement for this liability. As such, the potential future cash outflows are not included in the table above. We do not expect any significant change to our unrecognized tax benefits as a result of potential expiration of statute of limitations and settlements with tax authorities. The following table summarizes the Company’s off-balance sheet arrangements and the notional amount by expiration period as of December 31, 2020: (a) Financial standby letters of credit largely relate to casualty insurance policies for the Company’s workers’ compensation, automobile, general liability and product liability policies. Performance standby letters of credit primarily represent guarantees of performance of certain subsidiaries that engage in transactions with foreign customers. (b) Performance and bid bonds primarily relate to guarantees of performance of certain subsidiaries that engage in transactions with domestic and foreign customers. (c) Relates to certain transactions that the Company has entered into involving the sale of equipment to certain of its customers which included (i) guarantees to repurchase the equipment for a fixed price at a future date and (ii) guarantees to repurchase the equipment from the third-party lender in the event of default by the customer. For further discussion, see Note 12 – Commitments and Contingencies to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. 25 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect (i) the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, (ii) disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and (iii) the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. The Company considers the following policies to be the most critical in understanding the judgments that are involved in the preparation of the Company’s consolidated financial statements and the uncertainties that could impact the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquired business over the amounts assigned to its net assets. Goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment at a reporting unit level on an annual basis or more frequently if indicators of impairment exist. The Company performed its annual goodwill impairment test as of October 31, 2020. In testing the goodwill of its reporting units for potential impairment, the Company applies either a qualitative or quantitative test, in accordance with ASC 350, Intangibles – Goodwill and Other. A qualitative approach may be applied when the Company concludes that it is not “more likely than not” that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. In conducting a qualitative assessment, the Company analyzes a variety of events or factors that may influence the fair value of the reporting unit, including, but not limited to: the results of prior quantitative assessments performed; changes in the carrying amount; actual and projected financial performance; relevant market data for both the Company and its guideline comparable companies; industry outlook; and macroeconomic conditions. Significant judgment is used to evaluate the totality of these events and factors to make the determination of whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value. In this situation, the Company would not be required to perform the quantitative impairment test described below. A quantitative approach is performed by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is not impaired and no impairment charge is required. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, this difference is recorded as an impairment charge not to exceed the carrying amount of goodwill. The Company generally determines the fair value of its reporting units using both the income and market approaches. Under the income approach, the key assumptions include projected sales, cost of sales, operating expenses and earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”). These assumptions are determined by management utilizing our internal operating plan, including growth rates for revenues and operating expenses and margin assumptions. An additional key assumption under this approach is the discount rate, which is determined by reviewing current risk-free rates of capital and current market interest rates and by evaluating the risk premium relevant to the reporting unit. If the Company’s assumptions relative to growth rates were to change, the fair value calculation may change, which could result in impairment. Under the market approach, the Company estimates fair value using marketplace fair value data from within a comparable industry grouping of publicly traded companies and from pricing multiples implied from sales of companies similar to the Company’s reporting units. The Company’s selection of comparable guideline companies is a key assumption underlying the market approach. Similar to the income approach discussed above, sales, cost of sales, operating expenses, EBITDA and their respective growth rates are also key assumptions utilized. The market prices of the Company’s common stock and other guideline companies are additional key inputs. If these market prices increase, the estimated market value would increase. Conversely, if market prices decrease, the estimated market value would decrease. The results of these two methods are weighted based upon management’s evaluation of the relevance of the two approaches. Although the Company believes its estimates of fair value are reasonable, actual financial results could differ from estimated financial results due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making such estimates. Changes in assumptions concerning future financial results or other underlying assumptions could have a significant impact on either the fair value of the reporting units, the amount of any goodwill impairment charge, or both. The Company also compares the sum of the estimated fair values of its reporting units to the overall fair value of the Company implied by its market capitalization. This comparison provides an indication that, in total, assumptions and estimates are reasonable. Future declines in the overall market value of the Company may also result in a conclusion that the fair value of one or more reporting units has declined below its carrying value. In 2020, the Company performed a combination of qualitative and quantitative impairment tests to assess the goodwill of its reporting units for potential impairment. For one reporting unit, a quantitative impairment test was performed, using a combination of the income and market approaches to determine the fair value of the reporting unit. The valuation was prepared 26 by a third-party valuation specialist. One measure of the sensitivity of assumptions used in the impairment analysis is the amount by which each reporting unit “passed” (fair value exceeds the carrying value). The fair value of the reporting unit exceeded its carrying value by approximately 50%, and, therefore, no impairment was recognized. For its other reporting units, the Company applied the qualitative approach to assess the goodwill of its reporting units for potential impairment and concluded that it was not “more likely than not” that the fair value of the Company’s reporting units were less than their carrying values. Accordingly, further quantitative testing was not required to be performed. The Company had no goodwill impairments in 2020, 2019 or 2018. For all reporting units, a 10% decrease in the estimated fair value would have had no effect on the carrying value of goodwill at the annual measurement date in 2020. However, adverse changes to the Company’s business environment and future cash flow could cause us to record impairment charges in future periods, which could be material. See Note 8 – Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a summary of the Company’s goodwill by segment. Indefinite-lived Intangible Assets An intangible asset determined to have an indefinite useful life is not amortized. Indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment on an annual basis at year-end, or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset could be below its carrying amount. The Company’s indefinite-lived intangible assets include trade names associated primarily with the MRL, TBEI and JJE acquisitions that were completed in 2019, 2017 and 2016, respectively. In testing the indefinite-lived intangibles assets for potential impairment, the Company applies either a qualitative test, or a quantitative test, in accordance with ASC 350, Intangibles — Goodwill and Other. A qualitative approach may be applied when the Company concludes that it is not “more likely than not” that the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible assets are less than their carrying value. A quantitative impairment test consists of comparing the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset with its carrying amount. An impairment loss would be recognized for the carrying amount in excess of its fair value. Significant judgment is applied when evaluating whether an intangible asset has an indefinite useful life and in testing for impairment. The Company primarily uses the relief from royalty model to estimate the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible assets. The relief from royalty model requires management to make a number of business and valuation assumptions including future revenue growth and royalty rates. In 2020, the Company performed a combination of qualitative and quantitative impairment tests over its indefinite-lived intangible assets. The fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset that was quantitatively tested for impairment exceeded its carrying value by approximately 70%, and, therefore, no impairment was recognized. This valuation was prepared by a third-party valuation specialist. Further, the Company concluded that it was not “more likely than not” that the fair value of indefinite-lived intangible assets that were qualitatively tested for impairment were less than the carrying amounts. Accordingly, further quantitative testing was not required to be performed. The Company had no indefinite-lived intangible asset impairments in 2020, 2019 or 2018. Although the Company believes its estimates of fair value are reasonable, actual financial results could differ from estimated financial results due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making such estimates. The use of alternative estimates and assumptions could increase or decrease the estimated fair value of the assets and potentially result in different impacts to the Company’s results of operations. Actual results may differ from the Company’s estimates. See Note 8 – Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a summary of the Company’s indefinite-lived intangible assets. Revenue Recognition Revenue is recognized when performance obligations under the terms of a contract with the customer are satisfied; generally this occurs at a point in time, with the transfer of control of the Company’s products or services to customers. For most of the Company’s product sales, these criteria are met at the time the product is shipped; however, occasionally control passes later or earlier than shipment due to customer contract or letter of credit terms. In circumstances where credit is extended, payment terms generally range from 30 to 120 days and customer deposits may be required. Revenue is measured as the amount of consideration the Company expects to be entitled to in exchange for transferring products or providing services. Expected returns and allowances are estimated and recognized based primarily on an analysis of historical experience, with Net sales presented net of such returns and allowances. 27 The Company enters into sales arrangements that may provide for multiple performance obligations to a customer. These arrangements may include software and non-software components that function together to deliver the products’ essential functionality. The Company identifies all performance obligations that are to be delivered separately under the sales arrangement and allocates revenue to each performance obligation based on its relative standalone selling price. The Company uses an observable price to determine the standalone selling price or a cost plus margin approach when one is not available. In general, performance obligations include hardware, integration and installation services. The allocated revenue for each performance obligation is recognized as such performance obligations are satisfied. Net sales include sales of products and billed freight related to product sales. Freight has not historically comprised a material component of Net sales. The Company has elected to account for such shipping and handling activities as a fulfillment cost and not as a separate performance obligation. Taxes collected from customers and remitted to governmental authorities are recorded on a net basis and are excluded from Net sales. Income Taxes We estimate our income taxes in each of the taxing jurisdictions in which we operate. This involves estimating actual current tax expense together with assessing any temporary differences resulting from the different treatment of certain items, such as the timing for recognizing expenses, for tax and accounting purposes. These differences may result in deferred tax assets or liabilities, which are included in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. We are required to assess the likelihood that deferred tax assets, which include net operating loss and foreign tax credit carryforwards and deductible temporary differences, will be realizable in future years. Future realization of deferred tax assets depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income in future periods. Possible sources of taxable income include taxable income in carryback periods, the future reversal of existing taxable temporary differences recorded as a deferred tax liability, tax-planning strategies that generate future income or gains in excess of anticipated losses in the carryforward period and projected future taxable income. If, based upon all available evidence, both positive and negative, it is more likely than not such deferred tax assets will not be realized, a valuation allowance is recorded. Significant weight is given to positive and negative evidence that is objectively verifiable. A company’s three-year cumulative loss position is significant negative evidence in considering whether deferred tax assets are realizable and the accounting guidance restricts the amount of reliance the Company can place on projected taxable income to support the recovery of the deferred tax assets. We continually evaluate the need to maintain a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets based on our assessment of whether it is more likely than not that deferred tax benefits will be realized through the generation of future taxable income. Appropriate consideration is given to all available evidence, both positive and negative, in assessing the need for a valuation allowance. A high degree of judgment is required to determine if, and the extent that, valuation allowances should be recorded against deferred tax assets. At December 31, 2020, the total valuation allowance recorded against the Company’s deferred tax assets was $8.8 million, comprised of a $4.2 million valuation allowance recorded against state net operating loss carryforwards, a $3.1 million valuation allowance recorded against U.S. foreign tax credits, a $1.3 million valuation allowance recorded against foreign net deferred tax assets, and a $0.2 million valuation allowance recorded against other deferred tax assets. For further discussion related to valuation allowances and other tax matters, refer to Note 10 – Income Taxes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. 28 Item 7A.