 PART I Item 1. Business. Federal Signal Corporation, founded in 1901, was reincorporated as a Delaware corporation in 1969. The Company designs, manufactures and supplies a suite of products and integrated solutions for municipal, governmental, industrial and commercial customers. The Company’s portfolio of products that it manufactures includes sewer cleaners, industrial vacuum loaders, vacuum- and hydro-excavation trucks (collectively, “safe-digging” trucks), street sweepers, road-marking and line-removal equipment, waterblasting equipment, dump truck bodies, trailers, and safety and security systems, including technology-based products and solutions for the public safety market. In addition, the Company engages in the sale of parts, service and repair, equipment rentals and training as part of a comprehensive aftermarket offering to its customers. The Company opera tes 15 principal manufacturing facilities in five countries and provides products and integrated solutions to customers in all regions of the world. Narrative Description of Business Products manufactured and supplied, and services rendered, by the Company are divided into two reportable segments: the Environmental Solutions Group and the Safety and Security Systems Group. The individual operating businesses are organized as such because they share certain characteristics, including technology, marketing, distribution and product application, which create long-term synergies. Corporate contains those items that are not included in the Company’s reportable segments. Financial information concerning the Company’s two reportable segments for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2020, is included in Note 17 – Segment Information to the accompanying consolidated financial statements and is incorporated herein by reference. Environmental Solutions Group The Company’s Environmental Solutions Group is a leading manufacturer and supplier of a full range of street sweepers, sewer cleaners, industrial vacuum loaders, safe-digging trucks, high-performance waterblasting equipment, road-marking and line-removal equipment, dump truck bodies, and trailers. The Group manufactures vehicles and equipment in the U.S. and Canada that are sold under the Elgin® , Vactor® , Guzzler® , TRUVAC® , Westech TM, Jetstream® , Mark Rite Lines, Ox Bodies® , Crysteel® , J-Craft® , Duraclass® , Rugby® , and Travis® brand names. The Group’s product offerings also include certain products manufactured by other companies, such as refuse and recycling collection vehicles, camera systems, ice resurfacing equipment and snow-removal equipment. Products are sold to both municipal and industrial customers either through a dealer network or direct sales to service customers generally depending on the type and geographic location of the customer. In addition to vehicle and equipment sales, the Group also engages in the sale of parts, service and repair, equipment rentals and training as part of a comprehensive aftermarket offering to its current and potential customers through its service centers located across North America. Under the Elgin brand name, the Company sells a leading U.S. brand of street sweepers primarily designed for large-scale cleaning of curbed streets, parking lots and other paved surfaces utilizing mechanical sweeping, vacuum and recirculating air technology. Vactor is a leading manufacturer of equipment solutions for cleaning and maintaining sewers and catch basins. Under the TRUVAC brand name, introduced in 2019, the Company manufactures a range of premium vacuum- and hydro-excavation trucks designed to satisfy the safe-digging requirements of businesses or organizations that locate and verify underground utility lines and pipes. Guzzler is a leader in industrial vacuum loaders used to manage industrial waste or recover and recycle valuable raw materials. Westech is a manufacturer of high-quality, rugged vacuum-excavation trucks. Jetstream manufactures high-pressure waterblasting equipment and accessories for commercial and industrial cleaning and maintenance operations. Mark Rite Lines Equipment Company, Inc. (“MRL”), is a U.S. manufacturer of truck-mounted and ride-on road-marking and line-removal equipment. The Company manufactures and sells dump truck bodies and trailers under the Ox Bodies, Crysteel, J-Craft, Duraclass, Rugby and Travis brand names. Safety and Security Systems Group The Company’s Safety and Security Systems Group is a leading manufacturer and supplier of comprehensive systems and products that law enforcement, fire rescue, emergency medical services, campuses, military facilities and industrial sites use to protect people and property. Offerings include systems for community alerting, emergency vehicles, first responder interoperable communications and industrial communications. Specific products include public safety equipment, such as vehicle lightbars and sirens, industrial signaling equipment, public warning systems and general alarm/public address systems. Products are sold under the Federal Signal TM, Federal Signal VAMA® , and Victor® brand names. The Group operates manufacturing facilities in the U.S., Europe and South Africa. 2 Marketing and Distribution Depending primarily on the type and geographic location of the end-customer, the Environmental Solutions Group uses either a dealer network or direct sales to serve customers. The 2017 acquisition of Truck Bodies and Equipment International (“TBEI”) increased the number of dealers within the Company’s network and also added additional direct sales resources. The dealer network serves both municipal and industrial end-markets. Within municipal markets, the majority of the Company’s dealers operate exclusively in their assigned territory. In conjunction with selling vehicles to end-customers, dealer representatives demonstrate vehicle functionality and capability and provide vehicle service. In addition to selling products manufactured by the Company, certain of our businesses distribute and re-sell products manufactured by other companies. The Company believes its regional, national and global dealer networks for vehicles is a distinguishing factor from its competitors. The Company has an ownership interest in certain dealers. The Environmental Solutions Group’s direct sales channel concentrates primarily on the industrial, utility and construction market segments. To support current and potential customers in these market segments, the Group also engages in the sale of parts, service and repair, equipment rentals and training through its service centers located across North America. The Safety and Security Systems Group sells to industrial customers through wholesalers and distributors who are supported by Company sales personnel or independent manufacturer representatives. Products are also sold to municipal and governmental customers through active independent distributors, as well as through original equipment manufacturers and the direct sales force. The Company sells comprehensive integrated warning and interoperable communications through a combination of the direct sales force and independent distributors. International sales are made through independent foreign distributors or on a direct basis. Customers and Backlog No single customer accounted for 10% or more of the Company’s net sales in any year within the three-year period ended December 31, 2020. The Company’s backlog totaled $304 million at December 31, 2020, compared to $387 million at December 31, 2019. Backlogs vary by group due to the nature of the Company’s products and the buying patterns of its customers. The Environmental Solutions Group typically experiences an average backlog of approximately three to six months of shipments. The Safety and Security Systems Group typically experiences an average backlog of approximately two months of shipments. Production of the Company’s December 31, 2020 backlog is expected to be substantially completed during 2021. Suppliers The Company purchases a wide variety of raw materials from around the world for use in the manufacture of its products, although the majority of current purchases are from North American sources. To minimize risks relating to availability, price and quality of key products and components, the Company is party to numerous strategic supplier arrangements. Although certain materials are obtained from either a single-source supplier or a limited number of suppliers, the Company has generally identified alternative sources to minimize the interruption of its business in the event of supply disruptions. Components critical to the production of the Company’s vehicles, such as engines, are purchased from a select number of suppliers. The Company also purchases raw and fabricated steel, as well as commercial chassis, from multiple sources. In addition, we may incorporate chassis provided directly by our customers in our production process. Certain of our businesses also rely on the availability of equipment supplied by others to meet customer demand. While there are risks and uncertainties with respect to the supply of certain raw materials and components that could impact price, quality and availability in sufficient quantities, the Company believes it has adequate supplies and sources of availability of the raw materials and components necessary to meet its needs. 3 Competition Within the Environmental Solutions Group, Elgin is recognized as a market leader among domestic sweeper competitors and differentiates itself primarily on product performance. The Vactor, TRUVAC and Guzzler brands each maintain a leading domestic position in their respective marketplaces by enhancing product performance with leading technology and application flexibility. Jetstream is a market leader in the in-plant cleaning segment of the U.S. waterblast industry, competing on product performance, rapid delivery and solutions services. Joe Johnson Equipment, Inc. with Joe Johnson Equipment (USA), Inc., (collectively, “JJE”), is a leading Canadian-based distributor of maintenance equipment for municipal and industrial markets. TBEI includes a portfolio of regional dump truck body and trailer brands with market leadership positions in distinct geographies and product categories, differentiating itself with its broad regional distribution network, focus on customer responsiveness and operational expertise. MRL is a market-leading manufacturer of road-marking and line-removal equipment. Within specific product categories and domestic markets, the businesses within the Safety and Security Systems Group are among the market leaders. This Group’s international market position varies from leader to ancillary participant depending on the geographic region and product line. Generally, competition is intense within all of this Group’s product lines and purchase decisions are made based on price, features, reputation, performance and service, often within competitive bidding situations. Patents and Trademarks The Company owns a number of patents and possesses rights under others to which it attaches importance, but it does not believe that its business as a whole is materially dependent upon any such patents or rights. The Company also owns a number of trademarks, including those listed within the “ Narrative Description of Business ” section above. We believe these trademarks are important in connection with the identification of our products and associated goodwill with customers, but no material part of the Company’s business is dependent on our trademarks. Human Capital Management As of December 31, 2020, the Company employed approximately 3,500 people in its businesses located in five countries, with the Company’s U.S. hourly workers accounting for approximately 54% of its total workforce. As of December 31, 2020, approximately 16% of the Company’s U.S. hourly workers were represented by unions. The Company believes that its labor relations with its employees are good. The Company believes that its employees are key to its ability to deliver exceptional products and services to its customers. The Company applies a holistic total rewards strategy, designed to recruit, motivate, and retain talented employees at all levels of the organization, and offer competitive, market-based compensation programs, and attractive benefit packages. Diversity and Inclusion The Company is committed to promoting and supporting diversity. The Company believes that behaving inclusively is the right thing to do. The Company also believes that hearing different voices, and seeking different perspectives and ideas, leads to better results. The Company strives to promote diversity on its Board of Directors and in leadership roles throughout the Company. Currently, two of the Company’s seven directors are female, placing the Company ahead of the 20% average for companies in the Russell 3000 Index. Of the companies in the Russell 3000 Index, approximately 5% have a female Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”), and we are proud to be among that group. In addition, 50% of the Company’s current executive officers are female, including our President and CEO, Vice President and Corporate Controller and Vice President, Treasury and Corporate Development. The Company’s commitment to diversity throughout the organization is further evidenced by its policies related to various aspects of employment, including, but not limited to, recruiting, selecting, hiring, employment placement, job assignment, compensation, access to benefits, selection for training, use of facilities, and participation in Company-sponsored employee activities. Employee Training and Development The Company believes that identifying and developing the next generation of business leaders is important to its long-term success, and is proud to support its employees in furthering their education with tuition reimbursement plans and training. 4 The Company provides extensive training to employees within its facilities, ranging from topics such as workplace safety and anti-fraud training, to advanced instruction in lean manufacturing principles and inside sales training programs. On average, the Company’s employees each receive more than 10 hours of job training per year, with some employees of certain business units each averaging nearly 80 hours of training per year. Through its Tuition Assistance Program, the Company also aims to assist and encourage employees to expand their knowledge, skills, and job effectiveness by continuing their education at local accredited institutions of higher learning. Certain of the Company’s businesses also partner with nearby universities, from time to time, to offer courses and programs directly related to the employee’s growth in the business. The Company is committed to the communities in which it operates, and to developing a strong pipeline from which it can recruit new talent. Many of the Company’s businesses from time to time support their local high schools with cooperative learning extension programs at their manufacturing plants, hosting in-person or virtual tours of our facilities, and providing scholarships and “signing-day” offers to high school seniors. The Company’s employees also donate time and expertise through volunteering and mentorship programs, and work with local colleges on training programs to teach valuable technical skills that can be applied in the workplace. These programs attempt to help the Company’s next generation, and others, understand what career paths may be available to them and to explore future job opportunities with the Company. Safety The Company considers the safety of its employees a significant focus and strives to have zero workplace injuries. The Company has established an enterprise-wide Safety Council, which includes representatives from several of our manufacturing facilities. The Safety Council meets regularly to collaborate and implement safety improvement measures, focusing on continuous improvement initiatives, and the reduction of incident frequency. In February 2020, in response to the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company established a cross-functional task force to monitor ongoing developments, implement mitigation plans, and centrally coordinate its response. In addition to the centralized COVID-19 response team, local response teams were established at every business unit. Management team update calls were held daily to communicate issues related to safety and risk mitigation, and to share COVID-related best practices, and other policy issues. This platform allowed management to rapidly disseminate evolving guidance from federal, state, and local health departments, at the same time promoting a consistent, iterative response. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company was proactive in procuring personal protective equipment and sanitizing supplies for its facilities. The Company also implemented a series of enhanced health and safety measures across the organization, such as reconfiguring work spaces and staggering manufacturing shifts to allow for social distancing, introducing temperature screening protocols, enhancing facility cleaning, limiting non-essential travel and restricting the number of visitors to our facilities. Further, the Company established remote working arrangements, where possible, supported by the use of virtual meeting capabilities. In the interests of employee safety, the Company modified its employee attendance policies and provided employees with additional paid time off in order to encourage those who were sick, had health concerns, or were otherwise adversely impacted by the pandemic, to remain at home. The Company also partnered with a third-party to provide self-administered, at-home COVID test kits to its employees at no cost, and deployed surveillance testing to reduce the probability of spreading the virus within its facilities. We continue to monitor the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business and employees and will implement or modify our policies to adapt to changing circumstances arising from this pandemic. Governmental Regulation of the Environment As part of its ongoing commitment to environmental, social and governance initiatives, the Company endeavors to establish environmentally-friendly policies and objectives, and believes that these actions are also consistent with cost-effective operating practices. With the application of these policies, the Company believes it complies with federal, state and local provisions that have been enacted or adopted regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. Capital expenditures in 2020 attributable to compliance with such laws were not material. The Company also believes that the overall impact of compliance with environmental regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flow. 5 Seasonality Certain of the Company’s businesses are susceptible to the influences of seasonal factors, including buying patterns, delivery patterns and productivity influences from holiday periods and weather. In general, the Company tends to have lower equipment sales in the first calendar quarter of each year compared to other quarters as a result of these factors. In addition, rental income and parts sales are generally higher in the second and third quarters of the year, because many of the Company’s products are used for maintenance activities in North America, where usage is typically lower during periods of harsher weather conditions. Executive Officers of the Registrant The following is a list of the Company’s executive officers, including their ages, business experience and positions as of February 1, 2021: Jennifer L. Sherman, age 56, was appointed President and CEO effective January 1, 2016. Ms. Sherman was also appointed to the Board of Directors effective January 1, 2016. Since joining the Company in 1994, Ms. Sherman has served in various roles of increasing responsibility, most recently as Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer from April 2014 to December 31, 2015. Ms. Sherman also previously served as Senior Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer, General Counsel and Secretary from 2010 to April 2014, Senior Vice President, Human Resources, General Counsel and Secretary from 2008 to 2010, and Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary from 2004 to 2008. Daniel A. DuPré, age 64, was appointed Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in November 2015. Mr. DuPré joined the Company in 2006, most recently serving as its Deputy General Counsel. Mr. DuPré previously held senior legal positions at Sears Holdings Corporation, Bank One Corporation, and Brunswick Corporation and served as an Assistant United States Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois. Lauren B. Elting, age 39, was appointed Vice President and Corporate Controller in May 2018. Prior to joining the Company in January 2017, Ms. Elting worked at Ernst & Young, LLP from 2004 to 2016, most recently as Senior Audit Manager. Ian A. Hudson, age 44, was appointed Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in October 2017. Mr. Hudson joined the Company in August 2013 as Vice President and Corporate Controller. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Hudson served as Director of Accounting – Latin America and Asia Pacific at Groupon, Inc. from June 2012 to August 2013. Prior to that role, Mr. Hudson worked at Ernst & Young, LLP from 1998 to 2012, most recently as Senior Audit Manager. Svetlana Vinokur, age 41, was appointed Vice President, Treasurer and Corporate Development in April 2015. Prior to joining the Company, Ms. Vinokur worked as Assistant Treasurer at Illinois Tool Works Inc. Prior to that role, Ms. Vinokur served as Finance Head of M&A Strategy at Mead Johnson Nutrition Company and as a senior associate for Robert W. Baird & Company’s Consumer and Industrial Investment Banking group. Ms. Vinokur started her career at Ford Motor Company, serving in various finance roles. Mark D. Weber, age 63, was appointed Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer in January 2018, upon rejoining the Company after four years at Supreme Industries, Inc. (“Supreme”). Mr. Weber joined Supreme in May 2013 as President and Chief Executive Officer, serving in that capacity up to the sale of Supreme to Wabash National Corporation, which was completed in September 2017. Prior to joining Supreme, Mr. Weber worked for 17 years as an executive within the Company’s Environmental Solutions Group, including a decade as Group President. These officers hold office until the next annual meeting of the Board of Directors following their election and until their successors have been elected and qualified. There are no family relationships among any of the foregoing executive officers. 6 Item 1A.