 Item 1. Business. OVERVIEW Mission Lucid’s mission is to inspire the adoption of sustainable energy by creating advanced technologies and the most captivating luxury electric vehicles, centered around the human experience. About Us Lucid is a technology and automotive company that is setting new standards with its advanced luxury electric vehicles (EVs). Today, Lucid (i) designs, engineers and builds electric vehicles, EV powertrains and battery systems in-house using our own equipment and factory, (ii) offers a refined customer experience at our own geographically distributed retail and service locations and through direct-to-consumer online and retail sales and (iii) boasts a strong product roadmap of future vehicle programs and technologies. Our focus on in-house technological innovation, vertical integration, and a “clean-sheet” approach to engineering and design have led to the development of our groundbreaking electric vehicle, the Lucid Air. The Lucid Air is a luxury electric sedan that redefines both the luxury car segment and the electric vehicle space, with industry-leading EPA-accredited range of more than 500 miles on a single charge (depending on vehicle configuration). This range is enabled by an efficient, powerful powertrain that Lucid developed and builds in-house through vertically integrated manufacturing capacity. Our Space Concept underpins the Lucid Air’s design, merging a spacious interior with a smaller exterior profile that is reminiscent of a high-performance sports car. This achievement is enabled by our miniaturized drive-train components, which also result in increased storage capacity. The Lucid Air is manufactured at our greenfield electric vehicle manufacturing facility in Casa Grande, Arizona, Advanced Manufacturing Plant-1 (“ AMP-1 ”). Our manufacturing footprint in Casa Grande also includes the Lucid Powertrain Manufacturing Plant-1 (“ LPM-1 ”), located a short distance from AMP-1. Once AMP-1 is fully built out, our vehicle manufacturing footprint in Casa Grande is expected to exceed 5 million square feet on 495 acres. Our current manufacturing footprint has an annual output capacity of up to 34,000 vehicles per year followed by incremental build-out over time to deploy capital efficiently. Expansion activities are already underway to bring capacity at our Arizona site to 90,000 vehicles per year by the end of 2023 for production of both the Lucid Air and Project Gravity, with flexibility to shift production between vehicles based on demand. By building AMP-1 from a clean slate, we expect to achieve greater operational efficiencies and more consistent production quality than would be possible through outsourced manufacturing or adaptation of an existing facility. An emphasis on vertical integration of manufacturing capabilities provides us the opportunity to improve product margins relative to an out-sourced manufacturing arrangement. We expect to diversify our vehicle portfolio and increase production capacity through localization of manufacturing in other geographies. We sell vehicles directly to consumers through our retail sales network and through direct online sales. As of December 31, 2021, we opened twenty retail Studios and service centers in North America. We believe that owning our sales network provides an opportunity to closely manage the customer experience, gather direct customer feedback, and ensure that customer interactions are on-brand and tailored to our customers’ needs. 6 We also operate an in-house vehicle service network, with brick-and-mortar service centers in various geographies and a mobile service fleet. In addition to our in-house service capabilities, we established and continue to grow an approved list of specially trained collision repair shops which also serve as a repair hub for our mobile service offerings in some cases. We have contracted with a third-party roadside assistance partner for urgent roadside needs. As a technology company, we also complement our in-house service offerings through remote vehicle diagnostics capabilities and over-the-air (“OTA”) updates. This combination of in-house capabilities, ancillary service partners, and remote support and update capability is expected to serve our customers’ high service expectations. We began delivering the Lucid Air to customers in October 2021. We expect to launch additional vehicles over the coming decade. We have already commenced design and engineering work for Project Gravity, a luxury sports utility vehicle (“SUV”) that is expected to leverage many of the technological advancements and learnings from the Lucid Air. We expect to begin production of Project Gravity in the first half of 2024. After the Lucid Air and Project Gravity, we plan to leverage our technological and manufacturing advancements to develop and manufacture progressively more affordable vehicles in higher volumes. We further believe that our battery systems expertise positions us to produce compelling stationary energy storage system (“ESS”) products. ESS is a technologically adjacent opportunity which can leverage the modular design of our battery packs and our extensive experience with battery pack and battery management systems. By seeking to address the residential, commercial, and utility-scale energy storage markets, we can further address climate change through enhanced flexibility, efficiency, and stability of the electrical grid. We can also offer to customers an ability to add resiliency to their home’s power supply in the event of an outage through our future ESS products or the Lucid Air’s planned vehicle-to-grid (“V2G”) capabilities. Beyond the sale of Lucid branded vehicles, we believe that our technological prowess and manufacturing capabilities present a further opportunity to generate revenue and combat climate change through the sale or licensing of electric vehicle powertrain and battery technology to third parties. Such powertrain and battery arrangements could facilitate and accelerate the shift to electrification for traditional automotive original equipment manufacturers (“ OEMs ”) and “capex-light” EV companies alike and thereby enable the global production of electric vehicles in greater volumes and at varying price points. We believe that the sale or licensing of our technology would also enable us to refine our manufacturing efficiencies and the real world, practical operation of our technologies. Market Opportunity The Lucid Air is a fully electric sedan that targets “Post-Luxury” consumers. We look past traditional definitions of luxury in order to appeal to customers who expect more. We recognize that luxury in the automotive space is shifting. While legacy luxury automakers emphasize status, opulence, and indulgence, the Lucid brand embraces elegance, modernity, sustainability, and a sense of well-being. We believe we have the opportunity to define electric luxury by uniting our California aesthetic with our high-tech, Silicon Valley roots. Current luxury vehicles are based on traditions established by internal combustion automotive manufacture and design. We have the opportunity to be a leader in the next wave of innovation in the vehicle space. With the Lucid Air, Lucid targets consumers who desire electric vehicles with a high-end aesthetic and the accompanying luxury experience. Our initial product, the Lucid Air, is positioned to compete in the global luxury car market. We define the luxury automotive experience as one comprised of several essential elements, including: (i) luxury in product, with high-end comfort and significant attention to detail in design, content, materials, fit and finish, (ii) superior customer interaction, with high-touch customer interactions throughout both the sales cycle and ownership journey, and (iii) convenient service that exceeds that of a non-luxury automotive experience. We believe that our vehicles will be able to deliver the luxury experience that our target customers have become accustomed to, based on their experience owning traditional luxury vehicles. Through an initial focus on the high-end luxury market, we intend to define an exclusive and recognizable brand that is synonymous with luxury. Over time, Lucid intends to develop and manufacture progressively more affordable vehicles in higher volumes. Our ultimate goal is to make an impact on the global climate crisis through mass production of sustainable transportation. Increased government mandates for electrification, combined with consumers’ growing desire for clean energy vehicles, are driving electrification of the automotive industry at a rapid pace and on a global scale. The market is still nascent, with approximately 8% of global vehicle sales in 2021 being electric vehicles. This presents a significant opportunity for us to address unmet needs in this market. The Lucid Air, which was named the 2022 MotorTrend Car of the Year® in November, 2021, is expected to help define Lucid as a brand. The design of the Lucid Air is intended to capture the potential of electrification through a fusion of art and science. As our flagship product, the Lucid Air is intended to establish the bar for excellence across all our future products and experiences. We started delivering vehicles to customers in North America in 2021. We plan to begin deliveries of the Lucid Air in additional markets in 2022. 7 Our second vehicle, Project Gravity, is planned as an electric luxury SUV underpinned by efficiency, performance, and a spacious interior to set it apart in the SUV class, similar to how the Lucid Air stands out in its class. Beyond the Lucid Air and Project Gravity, our business plan contemplates the release of additional vehicles through the next decade. Competitive Strengths • Proven, Real World Validation. Our battery technology has been developed over the past decade and has been validated as world-class technology. Through our prototype and production vehicles and our role as the sole battery supplier to the premier EV racing series, our patented battery technology has driven more than 20 million real world miles since Lucid’s inception. • Highly Differentiated Performance. Our advancements in battery pack and drivetrain technology, created through a clean-sheet approach to engineering, have resulted in compelling performance and efficiency in our vehicles. The Lucid Air is available in a configuration with over 1,000 horsepower and the ability to accelerate from zero to 60 miles per hour in 2.5 seconds, translating to a projected quarter-mile time below ten seconds. • Revolutionary Powertrain Technology. Leveraging Lucid’s in-house powertrain technology, some variants of the Lucid Air have received independent validation by the EPA for an industry-leading estimated range in excess of 500 miles on a single charge. Some variants of the Lucid Air with 900V+ electrical architecture can achieve sufficient charge in approximately 22 minutes to travel 300 miles. This charging speed is facilitated by our Wunderbox. The Wunderbox is our multi-function, high-voltage, bi-directional charging unit that is expected to allow V2G capabilities, enabling a Lucid Air to serve as a back-up power source for residential applications in emergency outages. We plan to introduce this functionality via OTA updates. • Lucid Electric Advanced Platform (“LEAP”). The Lucid Air is underpinned by the Lucid Electric Advanced Platform or ‘LEAP’. This vehicle platform is designed to enable other vehicle variants on the same underbody as the Lucid Air, enabling greater speed to market and efficiency in capital deployment. • Directly Owned Manufacturing. Lucid vehicles are currently produced at Lucid’s AMP-1, the first purpose-built, greenfield EV manufacturing facility in North America. With the Lucid Air already in production, expansion activities are underway to enable the concurrent production of the Lucid Air and Project Gravity. Key elements of our vehicle engineering enable efficient and advanced manufacturing processes with a high degree of quality control. For example, the aircraft-inspired riveted and bonded monocoque body structure is designed to enhance structural efficiency and replace spot welds in the manufacturing process. Additionally, Lucid manufactures and assembles our complete electric powertrain at LPM-1, including assembly of battery packs, integrated drive units, and the Wunderbox. The LPM-1 facility was designed to facilitate the future establishment of similar facilities for an expanded, global manufacturing footprint for vehicles. • In-House Sales and Service. Consistent with the focus on quality in our manufacturing processes, we implement a direct sales and service strategy to maintain control over the customer experience and ensure that interactions are aligned with the Lucid brand. We enable this tight control over the customer experience by vertically integrating our sales operations instead of relying on a traditional outsourced dealership model. We are also scaling our own service operations to support customers, in addition to cultivating partnerships with body shop and other ancillary service partners that meet our expectations for customer service. • Product Design. Our first vehicle, the Lucid Air, fuses art and science to capture the potential of electrification. As our flagship product, the Air establishes the bar for excellence across all our products and experiences. Our “Space Concept” represents a technical breakthrough, achieved through a ground-up rethink in the way an automobile is designed. Our reimagining of the car has resulted in class-leading interior space for the driver, passengers, and storage within a compact, sporty, and efficient exterior. • Favorable Market Trends. As consumers seek brands that align with their values, we are positioned to address the wants and needs of a new generation of “post-luxury consumers.” The Lucid Air is the first true luxury electric vehicle and positions us to build its brand and reputation. By building the Lucid brand and achieving scale and efficiency in our manufacturing footprint, we believe we will have the opportunity over time to create more affordable and attainable technology to allow broader adoption in the EV space and the ability to capitalize on adjacent market opportunities such as marine, aviation, and stationary energy storage applications. • Management Team Experience. We have assembled a seasoned management team with deep experience in the automotive, EV, and disruptive technology spaces, led by Peter Rawlinson, who served as the Chief Engineer of the Tesla Model S program. The management team is rounded out by executives with significant industry experience from such companies as Apple, Tesla, Mazda, Audi, Volkswagen, General Motors, and Ford, among others. • Strategic Partnerships. We have established strong relationships with suppliers and partners to deliver the Lucid Air. We have battery cell supply agreements in place with leading suppliers in the electric vehicle space and a commercial partnership with Electrify America to deliver a differentiated charging experience for our customers. 8 Growth Strategy We aim to create opportunity as an automotive company, an energy storage systems manufacturer and a technology supplier for other automotive OEMs and other applications such as aircraft (including eVTOL), heavy machinery, agriculture, and marine transportation. • Vehicle Roadmap. We have established a planned roadmap for future vehicle lines that includes a variety of vehicle types that are expected to perform well in various customer segments. By utilizing the Lucid Air to establish the brand, we plan to leverage economies of scale and efficiency of operations to unlock sales in more mass market segments. We will seek to establish a strong customer base in the luxury and premium vehicle markets across the globe. • International Expansion. We expect to establish manufacturing facilities in multiple geographies, including Asia-Pacific, the Middle East and potentially Europe in the coming years along with a retail footprint throughout each region. These manufacturing facilities could include facilities for component subassembly, vehicle kit reassembly, complete built unit vehicle production and/or energy storage systems. We believe that establishing a global manufacturing footprint will help us to grow the brand, scale the business and address market demand in the Asia-Pacific, Middle East and European markets, while also taking action to address climate change. We anticipate that localized supply chain, production, distribution and retail can yield cost savings and environmental benefits with reduced transportation of product to the customer. As part of this strategy, our business plan contemplates manufacturing facilities in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and China. We expect to begin construction of a manufacturing facility in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia in the first half of 2022. See “—Manufacturing.” • Energy Storage Systems. We plan to leverage advancements in battery pack design and manufacture learned through development of the Lucid Air to produce stationary ESS solutions. This technologically adjacent business opportunity can leverage our extensive battery pack and battery management systems experience and expertise and has the potential to utilize the modular design of our battery pack to efficiently mass produce energy storage systems for residential, commercial and utility-scale applications. We intend to explore more cost-effective battery cell chemistries than those used in electric vehicle batteries, given the lower importance of gravimetrical energy density in ESS cells. We currently have a prototype ESS product operating at our headquarters in Newark, California. • Technology Outbound Sales & Licensing. We are actively engaged in supplying racing teams in the premier EV racing series with our battery packs and software. We expect to expand this technology division to supply our world class technology beyond the world of racing to help accelerate the adoption of EVs. We are motivated to achieve a future where transportation is sustainable and works with the planet, not against it. The sale of technology solutions to traditional automotive OEMs would support that goal, as would sales to customers in the marine and aviation sectors. Our technology is modular and readily customizable, enhancing our suitability for build-to-print powertrain and battery solutions for other manufacturers. Our Vehicles The Lucid Air We expect our first product, the Lucid Air, to define Lucid as a brand. The Air was recently named the 2022 MotorTrend Car of the Year® and is designed to fuse art and science to capture the potential of electrification. As our flagship product, the Air is intended to establish the bar for excellence across all our future products and experiences. The Air is a state-of-the-art luxury electric sedan featuring a California-inspired design and underpinned by our race-proven battery and its powertrain technology. Featuring luxurious interior space in a mid-size exterior footprint, some variants of the Lucid Air offer an EPA-accredited range in excess of 500 miles on a single charge. The Lucid Space Concept offers class-leading interior space and a massive front trunk (or “frunk”) with a capacity of over 280 liters. From the start of its development, we used the Lucid Space Concept to increase interior space. This new approach to sedan architecture takes advantage of our miniaturized EV drivetrain to deliver full-size interior volume within a mid-size exterior footprint. This technical breakthrough resulted in class-leading interior space for the driver, passengers, and storage within a compact, agile, and efficient exterior. The Space Concept was achieved through a ground-up rethink in the way an automobile is designed. The launch edition of the Lucid Air offers a “bench” style rear seat that provides expansive space for three adults with class leading legroom. The Lucid Air’s interior is capped with a glass canopy that creates an even more extravagant sense of space. Despite its expansive interior, the Lucid Air is more compact on the exterior than leading internal combustion engine ( “ICE” ) vehicles in the same class and segment. 9 The centerpiece of the Lucid Air’s human-machine interface is its “Glass Cockpit,” a beautifully integrated, configurable infotainment system that is designed to provide a seamless connected experience for the driver. This system is presented on a compound three-screen display assembly that curves in front of the driver — including two touch screens. This display is designed to sit in the driver’s line of sight to increase operator safety and reduce time looking away from the road. The Glass Cockpit is augmented by a retractable center screen for a more immersive user interface. The Lucid Air has the looks to match its advanced powertrain, with clean styling up front emphasized by slim headlights and a chrome strip that spans from one corner to the other. The hood features sculpting over the wheels to further emphasize power, and the windshield flows as one piece of glass all the way back to the B-pillar. The sleek lines work well with the Air’s short overhangs and large wheels. This pleasing shape is also functional, providing a low coefficient of drag at a mere 0.21 and enabling greater range and performance. Each of the Lucid Air’s interior themes is crafted with colors and materials that evoke iconic California locations at various times of day and night. Efficiency is the ultimate measure of EV technology, and we believe our technology leads the industry in this respect, with efficiency of greater than 4.5 miles per kilowatt-hour for some variants of the Lucid Air. The highly aerodynamic design of the Lucid Air provides longer range, driving faster miles-per-minute charging and the ability to provide equivalent range with a smaller, lower-cost battery pack. The Air’s advanced technology and efficiency have enabled us to design the Lucid Air to achieve both long range and high performance. These attributes have historically been mutually exclusive design goals, and the Lucid Air’s achievements in this regard further validates its technology. The Lucid Air is offered at various price points with different specifications. The initial variant of the Lucid Air that we have begun to produce is the Lucid Air Dream Edition. The Dream Edition is the special edition launch version of the Lucid Air and is intended to compete with the flagship sedans from incumbent luxury automakers. We anticipate releasing three additional variants of the Lucid Air, stepping down in price and performance to make an EV that is more accessible to a broader audience. As discussed in “— Technology ” below, the Lucid Air is underpinned by the LEAP, which is designed to support other vehicle variants to enable greater capital deployment efficiency and speed to market. Future Vehicle Programs The first vehicle planned to share the Lucid Air’s components and systems is our Project Gravity, which we expect to start producing in the first half of 2024. We expect Project Gravity to achieve many of the same attributes that make the Lucid Air special, including a class-leading spacious interior in a more compact and efficient exterior. We anticipate that the use of carry over Air components will enable efficiency in design, engineering and capital expenditure deployment for Project Gravity. We expect to have installed production capacity of 90k units/year at AMP-1 coincident with the Project Gravity launch to accommodate for both Lucid Air and Project Gravity volumes. We have also developed a roadmap with additional vehicles and platforms to make its vehicles more accessible at a variety of price points. We plan to start at the high end to establish our brand but expect to manufacture progressively more affordable vehicles in higher volumes over time. Technology We are a technology and automotive company. We seek to set new standards for sustainable transportation with the Lucid Air, and we do so in part by focusing on proprietary, in-house technology development. We have developed cutting-edge electric vehicle technology that we believe sets a new benchmark for EVs. Core to our DNA is the achievement of technical excellence. Our in-house engineering team is focused on delivering innovation in all facets of vehicle development, including hardware and software development, vehicle design, and passenger comfort. The development of the Lucid Air was predicated on the premise that miniaturizing the powertrain would allow us to redesign what a car can be from the ground up. We have refined our battery technologies over many years in real-world applications, including more than 20 million miles of vehicle testing and the supply of battery packs to all teams in the premier EV racing series. We have used the data accumulated from these activities to refine our technology and thoughtfully develop the Lucid Air. We believe our in-house research and development organization establishes us as a leader across multiple technologies and areas of expertise. Our technological achievements include significant advancements to the core technologies that drive an electric vehicle. Areas where our in-house engineering has driven advancement include: • Battery Pack. The Lucid Air’s battery pack translates our motorsport experience and more than 20 million miles of real-world testing into a compact and energy dense unit that was developed in-house with a clean-sheet approach to engineering. The battery pack is 10 designed to be scalable and modular, providing opportunities for cost and range variations as we develop future LEAP platforms. It is also designed for performance, with advanced end-cooling technology and an advanced low-resistance architecture to reduce heat loss and increase range. Our battery pack incorporates battery cells from suppliers that have extensive experience in the development and manufacturing of cells for high-performance electric vehicle applications and robust battery cycle life. The battery cells incorporated into our battery packs are required to conform to our lofty standards, including with respect to our targets for range, energy density, recharge/discharge rates and other characteristics, and to support our compact, energy-dense battery pack form. We have battery cell supply agreements with these suppliers in place. Our battery pack supports our vision to revolutionize EV technology through mass industrialization. Our single piece “brick” injection molded battery module is race derived yet designed for mass production, with electrical “bus bar” connectors that are integrally captured in the molding in a single operation — a profound technological advancement. We believe the technology developed for the battery pack in the Lucid Air can transfer to our other vehicles, to the industrialization of mass-market vehicles, and to technologically adjacent markets. See “— Growth Strategy .” • Lucid Electric Advanced Platform. The LEAP platform was designed and developed in-house, incorporating our six key powertrain elements: (i) Battery Pack & Battery Management Software, (ii) Electric Motors, (iii) Power Electronics, (iv) Transmission, (v) Control Software and (vi) Two-Way Onboard Boost-Charger (with bi-directional features expected to be enabled by OTA at a later date). The LEAP structure is an enabling factor allowing the Lucid Space Concept to support class-leading interior and cargo room for a luxury or electric vehicle. We further expect to capture additional market share by diversifying our vehicle lineup supported by mid-size and larger platforms over time. • Integrated Electric Motor, Inverter and Transmission Drive Unit. Our motor and gearbox system utilizes permanent magnet motors that were developed in-house. Combining these motors with an inverter and an integrated gearbox and differential creates an advanced electric drive unit that weighs just 163lb (74kg) and is small enough to fit inside a carry-on roller bag. The T The Lucid drive unit is capable of producing up to 670hp with power density up to 9.0hp/kg, depending on vehicle trim and variant. This compactness allows for one, two or even three units to be used to power a Lucid Air. The enablers of these electric motor characteristics include a set of inventions that are part of our intellectual property portfolio. Most notably, a new motor winding technology has been introduced to increase power output and reduce electrical losses. The motor also features an innovative cooling system that more effectively removes heat from the stator winding, reducing losses and boosting efficiency. The compactness of these electric drive units lays the foundation for our Space Concept vehicle design approach. The fully integrated transmission and differential also contribute to this approach. Together, these components comprise a unified, integrated rotational system that is both lightweight and extremely efficient. Meanwhile, we leverage a high voltage, silicon-carbide MOSFET (metal–oxide–semiconductor field-effect transistor) system in our inverters to increase efficiency, especially in real-world driving conditions. The obsessive pursuit of lightweight construction contributes to overall efficiency, our technology improves the key components of its powertrain while extracting even more performance. For example, in September 2021, the Lucid Air Dream Edition Range received an official EPA-accredited rating of 520 miles of range which is the longest range of any vehicle on the EPA’s list. The top six vehicles on the EPA range list are Lucid Air variants. Less weight leads to increased efficiency, even as performance is elevated to new levels. Finally, we have also achieved breakthroughs in the advanced thermal management system within our electric motors. We have patented our efficient cooling design, which enables even higher levels of efficiency and performance. • Bidirectional Charging. Our proprietary technology is designed to enable ultra-fast DC and bi-directional AC charging. The 900V+ architecture and our Wunderbox are key enablers inside the Air’s electrical platform. The Wunderbox is a multi-function unit, developed in-house to ensure compatibility with charging systems of differing voltages. It enables “boost-voltage” charging when needed, such as when connected to 400V charging infrastructure. The Wunderbox is a key enabler for the Lucid Air’s industry-leading charging speeds. Our customers can charge up to approximately 300kW-DC at a DC fast charging station, such as those available through our partnership with Electrify America. 11 The Wunderbox is also designed to enable a wide array of future-ready, bi-directional power delivery features, such as V2G applications for situations such as managing home power outages. We expect to enable bi-directional functionality via an OTA update in the future. • Infotainment System. Our infotainment system is designed to provide a connected experience, both inside and outside the car. With highly advanced processing capabilities, the system is designed to leverage data analytics and OTA updates to improve and refresh the vehicle over time. In the future, our customers will enjoy connectivity, including 4G LTE and Wi-Fi, as well as the ability to support Amazon Alexa integrations. In addition, customers have the ability to remotely access climate controls and updates on their vehicle through a mobile application. Our user interface smartphone application is expected to allow our customers to set Lucid ID profiles for a personalized experience based on profiles rather than the settings in place when the last driver left the vehicle. In addition, we expect to evolve the car-to-driver relationship by enabling predictive analytics to provide shortcuts and assistance based on learned driving behaviors. • Lucid DreamDrive. The Lucid Air is equipped with an extensive sensor suite, high on-board computing power, and back-up systems for advanced driver assistance systems (“ADAS”) and, over time, autonomous driving systems. With 32 sensors onboard, the Lucid Air is expected to launch with the most comprehensive sensor suite among currently available production vehicles. Lucid Air includes certain features with Level 2 ADAS functionality and is capable of software upgrades via OTA update. Further, by collecting and analyzing fleet data, we expect to enhance our ADAS features and improve the Lucid experience over time. • Lucid’s Micro Lens Array Lighting. A revolution in optical technology, our in-house created and engineered Intelligent Micro Lens Array (“ MLA ”) headlights provide an incredibly homogeneous and luminant headlamp and lighting function. The MLA system is designed to automatically adapt to driving situations and provide exceptional outward visibility that makes it easier to see — and avoid — objects on the road. Manufacturing We have built North America’s first greenfield, purpose-build EV manufacturing facilities, in Casa Grande, Arizona. Lucid’s manufacturing activities are carried out at Lucid’s vehicle manufacturing plant, AMP-1, and dedicated powertrain manufacturing facility, LPM-1. Vertically integrating key manufacturing activities provide Lucid the opportunity to improve product margins relative to an out-sourced manufacturing arrangement. We carefully selected our Arizona site for several reasons, including infrastructure, talent, geographic location, proximity to a pre-existing automotive supply chain and dedicated support from state and local governments. The location of the facility also offers space for a large footprint and planned expansions. AMP-1 began production of the Lucid Air in September 2021. Within AMP-1, we produce vehicles using innovative production processes and state-of-the-art equipment. Key elements of our vehicle engineering enable efficient and advanced manufacturing processes with a high degree of quality control. For example, the aircraft-inspired riveted and bonded monocoque body structure is designed to enhance structural efficiency and replace spot welds in the manufacturing process. Lucid manufactures and assembles our complete electric powertrain at LPM-1, including assembly of battery packs, integrated drive units, and the Wunderbox. The LPM-1 facility was designed to facilitate the future establishment of similar facilities for an expanded, global manufacturing footprint for vehicles. We believe the same design is scalable for manufacturing to address opportunities in technology sales and licensing. See “— Growth Strategy .” These facilities are expected to position us to serve global electric vehicle markets with a standard product utilizing our in-house manufacturing processes. We started the commissioning process for the AMP-1 and LPM-1 facilities in less than one year after breaking ground. As part of the commissioning, we tested our innovative production processes and state-of-the-art equipment to build our beta prototype test fleet and production-representative versions of the Lucid Air. AMP-1 and LPM-1 were designed with expansion in mind. This approach to planning our facilities includes a state-of-the-art paint shop designed with the necessary footprint and specialized infrastructure to be expanded to accommodate the needs of planned future phases of the factory. We began production of Lucid Air Dream Edition customer vehicles in September 2021 and commenced initial customer deliveries in October 2021. We have a multi-year plan to expand AMP-1 from its current output capacity of up to 34,000 units per year. Phase 2 of our manufacturing expansion was kicked off in mid-2021 and is expected to add up to 2.85 million square feet of manufacturing space to our 12 facilities in Casa Grande. The Phase 2 expansion activities are expected to enable a 90,000 units per year installed capacity by the end of 2023. Future expansions of AMP-1 are being planned to account for the launch of future vehicle programs intended to be manufactured in Arizona and to accommodate growth in sales volumes. Once AMP-1 is fully built out, our vehicle manufacturing footprint in Casa Grande is expected to exceed 5 million square feet on 495 acres. By building the factory from a clean slate and leveraging decades of industry experience, we expect to achieve (i) greater capital efficiencies, (ii) greater operational efficiencies, and (iii) consistent production quality. The key activities that currently take place in AMP-1 include body shell manufacture, painting of body shells, and general assembly. As part of the Phase 2 expansion, we are bringing stamping, powertrain production and logistics operations on-site. We expect to build out our manufacturing footprint with manufacturing plants in additional geographies to service our expected global demand. A global footprint with localized manufacturing will enable us to serve market demand with locally manufactured vehicles, with the potential to facilitate cost savings and simpler logistics (which can also yield environmental benefits with reduced transportation of product to the applicable markets). The production processes in AMP-1 and LPM-1 were designed to be highly repeatable to standardize manufacturing operations and build efficiency in our capital planning and deployment. We plan to develop greenfield facilities across multiple geographies. Production and distribution consume energy, as with any manufacturer. We intend to localize production in an attempt to offset some of these energy needs, and we believe that our products will require less energy throughout their useful life than competing products. We are taking preliminary steps toward establishing production manufacturing operations in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and expect to begin construction of a manufacturing facility in the first half of 2022. Over time, this facility is expected to have a manufacturing capacity of up to 150,000 vehicles per year. Go-To-Market Strategy We have launched our go-to-market strategy through our online vehicle configurator. As of December 31, 2021, we had over 22,500 refundable reservations and non-refundable orders for cars yet to be delivered that reflect a potential order book greater than $2.2 billion. We believe that our customer traction is strong and has continued to grow as brand awareness has increased. Our typical customer journey is expected to begin through our advanced digital platform. We use social media to educate customers regarding our brand identity, explain the creation of our technology and highlight the people behind our design and technology. The goal is to cultivate a sense of brand loyalty with our customers. This initial engagement drives customers to our website to learn more about our story and the Lucid Air. On the website, customers can experience our online vehicle configurator, which provides an immersive and customizable opportunity to interact with our vehicles in a virtual setting. From there, we provide the customer with the option to either place a reservation online or visit one of our retail stores or gallery locations, which we refer to as “Studios.” We believe that our direct-to-consumer sales model, combined with a digitally enhanced luxury experience through our website and a refined in-store experience, creates opportunities to tailor to each customer’s purchase and ownership preferences. Customers have the option to visit a Studio in person, make their inquiries entirely online, or enjoy a combination of the two experiences. In developing our Studios, we have partnered with leading California-based design firms to build a network of retail spaces to enable customers to experience the brand and our products in locations that underscore our design aesthetic. Like the Lucid Air, the interiors of Lucid Studios showcase color and material themes that represent specific locations within California, the Golden State, as well as our focus on innovation with immersive digital and technology experiences. Our Studios are intended to provide a pressure-free environment for our customers to comfortably experience the brand and our products. Like the Lucid Air itself, Lucid Studios draw inspiration from the beauty, innovation, and diversity of our home state of California. Retail locations serve both as our sales channels and marketing tools in high-foot-traffic areas within urban areas. As of December 31, 2021, Lucid had twenty Studios and service center locations opened and expects to increase coverage throughout North America in 2022 and plans to enter the European and Middle East markets followed by the China market. These markets are rapidly adopting electric vehicles, and we believe that establishing a strong retail presence will enhance our opportunity to increase our share of our total addressable market. With a focus on convenience, our service operations include vehicle and customer support at customers’ physical locations through our mobile service offerings and certified partners for roadside assistance and collision repairs, as well as through our network of brick-and-mortar service centers. The Lucid Air is also designed to enable OTA updates and remote diagnostics. Rather than investing in a proprietary charging network, we have selected Electrify America as our primary high-power charging network partner in the United States. This partnership allows us to avoid the capital intensity of establishing our own network and provides our customers with access to an established network across the United States. Electrify America’s DC power levels of up to 350KW and network coverage were the key selection criteria in selecting it as a partner. We expect that Electrify America’s premium charging experience provides EV drivers with convenient charging locations that offer amenities like shopping, food and restrooms, and we believe this offering will provide a delightful experience to our customers. 13 Government Regulations and Credits Environmental Regulations We operate in an industry that is subject to extensive environmental regulation, which has become more stringent over time. The laws and regulations to which we are or may become subject govern, among other things, water use; air emissions; use of recycled materials; energy sources; the storage, handling, treatment, transportation, and disposal of hazardous materials; the protection of the environment, natural resources, and endangered species; and the remediation of environmental contamination. Compliance with such laws and regulations at an international, regional, national, state, provincial and local level is and will be an important aspect of our ability to continue our operations. Environmental standards applicable to us are established by United States laws and regulations, standards adopted by regulatory agencies and the permits and licenses we are required to obtain. Each of these sources is subject to periodic modifications and what we anticipate will be increasingly stringent requirements. Violations of these laws, regulations or permits and licenses may result in substantial civil and criminal fines, penalties and orders to cease the violating operations or to conduct or pay for corrective works. In some instances, violations may also result in the suspension or revocation of permits and licenses. Many countries have announced a requirement for the sale of zero-emission vehicles only within proscribed timeframes, some as early as 2030, and we as an electric vehicle manufacturer are already able to comply with these requirements across our entire product portfolio as we expand. Our competitors, by contrast, will need to reconcile an expensive infrastructure with factories and equipment tailored for production of ICE vehicles, along with workforces trained to produce ICE vehicles and intellectual property portfolios geared for ICE vehicles. Emissions Credits We expect that the manufacture, sale, and/or registration of Zero Emission Vehicles (“ ZEVs ”) in various regions will earn certain regulatory credits that we can sell to other manufacturers. This may include ZEV credits in up to 11 U.S. jurisdictions referred to collectively as the “ZEV States” that require compliance with program mandates (California, Colorado, Connecticut, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York, Oregon, Rhode Island and Vermont). There are another four states in the process of entering into the program (Minnesota, Nevada, Virginia and Washington) and one state considering the program (New Mexico). This would also include Corporate Average Fuel Economy (“ CAFE ”) credits under the U.S. Department of Transportation standards, greenhouse gas credits from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the “ EPA ”) and similar credits in each of Europe, Canada, and China. ZEV credits are calculated under applicable regulation and are paid in relation to ZEVs sold and registered, including Battery Electric Vehicles (“ BEVs ”). ZEV programs generally assign ZEV credits to each vehicle manufacturer. Vehicle manufacturers are required to maintain ZEV credits equal to a set percentage of non-electric vehicles sold and registered in California and ZEV States. Each vehicle sold and registered in the state earns a number of credits based on the drivetrain type and the all-electric range of the vehicle under the Urban Dynamometer Driving Schedule Test Cycle. BEVs receive between 1 and 4 credits per vehicle sold and registered in the state, based on range. For reference, the ZEV credit requirement in California was 12.0% in 2021 and will rise to 22% in 2025. If a vehicle manufacturer does not sell enough EVs to meet its quota, it can choose to buy credits from other manufacturers who do or would be required to pay a $5,000 fine for each credit it is short. We expect this requirement to provide an opportunity to generate revenue from the sale of ZEV credits. While we expect these environmental regulations to provide a tailwind to our growth, it is possible for certain regulations to result in margin pressures. For example, regulations that effectively impose electric vehicle production quotas on auto manufacturers may lead to an oversupply of electric vehicles, which in turn could promote price decreases. Changes to these incentives and regulations could affect our revenues and gross margins. Other Credits and Benefits We may benefit from additional opportunities under government regulations and legislation, such as the following: • Customer tax credits and other benefits arising from government regulation may spur interest in our products and business: a federal tax credit of up to $7,500 is available to U.S. purchasers of the Lucid Air Dream Edition and Grand Touring. Our future electric vehicles may be eligible for similar tax credits and other benefits; tax credits available to purchasers in other countries such as Norway, which currently waives various toll charges and road taxes and also exempts 25% VAT on the purchase of battery electric vehicles; and high-occupancy lane driving privileges available to purchasers in certain U.S. states such as California. • We may be eligible for various tax credits, abatements and other benefits, including: the federal 30C Alternative Fuel Infrastructure tax credit for alternative fuel infrastructure; the federal 48C manufacturing investment tax credit for investments in manufacturing facilities for clean energy technologies; the Qualified Facilities tax credit in Arizona; a California sales and use tax exclusion under the 14 California Alternative Energy and Advanced Transportation Financing Authority; and other hiring and job training grants and income tax credits in both Arizona and California. • We may also be eligible for a loan pursuant to the Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing Loan Program administered by the U.S. Department of Energy. EPA Emissions and Certificate of Conformity The U.S. Clean Air Act requires that we obtain a Certificate of Conformity issued by the EPA and a California Executive Order issued by the California Air Resources Board (“ CARB ”) certifying that our vehicles comply with applicable emissions requirements. A Certificate of Conformity is required for vehicles sold in the United States, and an Executive Order from the CARB is required for vehicles sold in states that have adopted California standards. CARB sets the California standards for emissions control for certain regulated pollutants for new vehicles and engines sold in California. States that have adopted the California emission standards as approved by EPA also recognize the CARB Executive Order for sales of vehicles. In addition to California, there are 14 other U.S. jurisdictions that have adopted the stricter California emission standards, including New York, Massachusetts, Vermont, Maine, Pennsylvania, Connecticut, Rhode Island, Washington, Oregon, New Jersey, Maryland, Delaware, Colorado, and Washington, D.C. An additional three states are in the process of adopting the California emission standards (Minnesota, Nevada, and Virginia), and one state is considering adoption (New Mexico). Although the Lucid Air has zero emissions, we are required to seek an EPA Certificate of Conformity and, for vehicles sold in California or any of the other 14 U.S. jurisdictions that have adopted the stricter California emission standards, a CARB Executive Order. Compliance with the program is required in each state two model years following adoption of the program. Vehicle Safety and Testing Our vehicles are subject to, and will be required to comply with, numerous regulatory requirements established by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (“ NHTSA ”), including applicable U.S. Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards (“ FMVSS ”). The Lucid Air fully complies with all applicable FMVSSs without any exemptions, and we expect our future vehicles to either fully comply or comply with limited exemptions related to new technologies. Additionally, there are regulatory changes being considered for several FMVSSs, and while we anticipate compliance, there is no assurance that we will comply with such changes under the final versions as enacted. We must self-certify that our vehicles meet all applicable FMVSS, as well as the NHTSA bumper standard, or otherwise are exempt, before our vehicles can be sold in the United States. Numerous FMVSS will apply to our vehicles, such as crash-worthiness requirements, crash avoidance requirements and EV-specific requirements. We will also be required to comply with other federal laws and regulations administered by NHTSA, including, among other things, ensuring our vehicles do not contain defects related to motor vehicle safety, recall requirements, the CAFE standards, Theft Prevention Act standards, consumer information labeling requirements, reporting required notices, bulletins and other communications, Early Warning Reporting, foreign recall reporting, and owner’s manual requirements. The Automobile Information and Disclosure Act requires manufacturers of motor vehicles to disclose certain information regarding the manufacturer’s suggested retail price, optional equipment and pricing. In addition, this law requires inclusion of city and highway fuel economy ratings, as determined by the EPA, as well as crash test ratings as determined by NHTSA if such tests are conducted. We intend to expand our offerings outside of the United States, and in connection with such expansion our vehicles will be subject to foreign safety, environmental and other regulations. Many of those regulations are different from those applicable in the United States and may require redesign and/or retesting. For example, the European Union (“ E.U. ”) has established new approval and oversight rules requiring that a national authority certify compliance with heightened safety rules, emissions limits and production requirements before vehicles can be sold in each E.U. member state, the initial of which rules were rolled out on September 1, 2020. There is also regulatory uncertainty regarding how these rules will impact sales in the United Kingdom given its recent withdrawal from the E.U. These changes could impact the rollout of new vehicle features in Europe. In addition to the various territorial legal requirements, we are obligated to meet, the Lucid Air is engineered with the expectation that it will deliver overall five-star performance in the two main voluntary vehicle safety performance assessment programs, the U.S. New Car Assessment Program (“ NCAP ”) and the Euro NCAP. Five-star is the maximum attainable score. These programs have introduced several additional safety related tests aimed at improving the safety of passenger vehicles, both for occupants and pedestrians involved in collisions with vehicles. Some of these tests are derived from legal requirements, such as side impact, but have higher performance requirements. Others are unique to the programs. Areas covered by these tests included: • Mobile Progressive Deformable Barrier; • Full Width Rigid Barrier; • Mobile Side Impact Barrier; 15 • Side Pole; • Far Side Impact; • Whiplash; • Vulnerable Road Users (Pedestrians and Cyclists); • Safety Assist; and • Rescue and Extrication. ADAS Regulations We have equipped the Lucid Air with certain advanced driver assistance features. Generally, laws pertaining to driver assistance features and self-driving vehicles are evolving globally, and in some cases may create restrictions on advanced driver assistance or self-driving features that Lucid may develop. While there are currently no U.S. federal regulations specifically pertaining to self-driving vehicles or self-driving equipment, NHTSA has published recommended guidelines on self-driving vehicles and retains the authority to investigate and/or act on the safety of any vehicle, equipment or features operating on public roads. Certain U.S. states also have legal restrictions on the operation, registration or licensure of self-driving vehicles, and many other states are considering similar restrictions. This regulatory patchwork increases the legal complexity with respect to self-driving vehicles in the United States. In markets that follow the regulations of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe, some requirements restrict the design of advanced driver assistance or self-driving features, which can compromise or prevent their use entirely. Other applicable laws, both current and proposed, may hinder the path and timeline to introducing such features in the markets where they apply. Other jurisdictions, including China, continue to consider self-driving regulation. Any implemented regulations may differ materially from those in the United States and Europe, which may further increase the legal complexity of advanced driver assistance and self-driving features and limit or prevent certain features. Automobile Manufacturer and Dealer Regulation In the United States, state laws regulate the manufacture, distribution, sale and service of automobiles, and generally require motor vehicle manufacturers and dealers to be licensed in order to sell vehicles directly to residents. Certain states do not permit automobile manufacturers to be licensed as dealers or to act in the capacity of a dealer, or otherwise restrict a manufacturer’s ability to deliver or service vehicles. To sell vehicles to residents of states where we are not licensed as a dealer, we expect to conduct the transfer of title out of the state. In certain such states, we expect to open Studios that serve an educational purpose and where the title transfer may not occur. Some automobile dealer trade associations have challenged the legality of our operations and direct selling operations by OEMs in court and have used administrative and legislative processes to attempt to prohibit or limit such OEMs’ ability to operate existing stores or expand to new locations. Certain dealer associations have also actively lobbied state licensing agencies and legislators to interpret existing laws or enact new laws in ways not favorable to our planned direct sales and service model. We expect dealer trade associations to continue to lobby state licensing agencies and legislators to interpret existing laws or enact new laws in ways not favorable to our business model; however, we intend to oppose such efforts to limit our ability to operate and intend to proactively support legislation that enables our business model. Battery Safety and Testing Regulation Our battery packs are designed to conform to mandatory regulations that govern transport of “dangerous goods,” defined to include lithium-ion batteries, which may present a risk in transportation. The governing regulations, which are issued by the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, are based on the United Nations (“ U.N. ”) Recommendations on the Safe Transport of Dangerous Goods Model Regulations and related U.N. Manual Tests and Criteria. The regulations vary by mode of shipping transportation, such as by ocean vessel, rail, truck or air. We plan to complete all applicable transportation tests for our battery packs, demonstrating our compliance with applicable regulations. We use lithium-ion cells in the high voltage battery packs in our vehicles. The use, storage and disposal of battery packs is regulated under federal law. Our battery packs are intended to meet the applicable compliance requirements of the UN Manual of Tests and Criteria demonstrating our ability to ship battery packs by any method. These tests include: • Altitude simulation — simulating air transport; • Thermal cycling — assessing cell and battery seal integrity; • Vibration — simulating vibration during transport; • Shock — simulating possible impacts during transport; 16 • External short circuit — simulating an external short circuit; and • Overcharge — evaluating the ability of a rechargeable battery to withstand overcharging. Competition We face competition from both traditional automotive OEMs and an increasing number of newer companies focused on electric and other alternative fuel vehicles. We expect this competition to increase, particularly as the transportation sector continues to shift towards low-emission, zero-emission or carbon neutral solutions. The Lucid Air and planned future vehicles are expected to compete with both traditional luxury internal combustion vehicles from established automotive OEMs and electric and other alternative fuel vehicles from both new manufacturers and established automotive OEMs, many of which have entered or have announced plans to enter the alternative fuel and electric vehicle market. Many major automobile manufacturers, including luxury automobile manufacturers, have electric vehicles available today, and other current and prospective automobile manufacturers are also developing electric vehicles. In addition, numerous manufacturers offer hybrid vehicles, including plug-in versions, with which our vehicles will also compete. We believe the primary competitive factors on which we will compete include, but are not limited to: • product quality, reliability and safety; • range, efficiency and charging speeds; • product performance; • technological innovation, including with respect to ADAS features; • access to charging options; • design, styling and luxury; • service options and customer experience; • management team experience at bringing electric vehicles and other disruptive technologies to market; • manufacturing efficiency; • brand recognition and prestige; and • product price. We believe that we are favorably positioned to compete on the basis of these factors. However, many of our current and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing and other resources than us. Our competitors may be able to deploy greater resources to the design, development, manufacturing, distribution, promotion, sales, marketing and support of their products. Additionally, many of our competitors also have greater name recognition, longer operating histories, larger sales forces, broader customer and industry relationships and other tangible and intangible resources that exceed ours. Furthermore, many of our competitors operate with a traditional sales and dealer distribution model for vehicles that may be viewed more favorably by potential customers. These competitors also compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified research and development, sales, marketing and management personnel, as well as in acquiring technologies complementary to, or necessary for, our products. Additional mergers and acquisitions in the electric vehicle and luxury automotive markets may result in even more resources being concentrated in our competitors. Intellectual Property Intellectual property is important to our business. Our commercial success depends in part on our ability to obtain, maintain and protect the intellectual property and other proprietary technology that we develop, to operate without infringing, misappropriating or otherwise violating the intellectual property and proprietary rights of others, and to prevent others from infringing, misappropriating or violating our intellectual property and proprietary rights. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovation, confidential information and other measures to develop and maintain our proprietary position including through employee, contractor, consultant and third-party nondisclosure and invention assignment agreements and other contractual arrangements. Regardless of the coverage we seek under our existing patent applications, there is always a risk that alterations from our products or processes may provide sufficient basis for a competitor to avoid infringement claims. In addition, the coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before a patent is issued and courts can reinterpret patent scope after issuance. Many jurisdictions, including the United States, permit third parties to challenge issued patents in administrative proceedings, which may result in further narrowing or even c ancellation of patent claims. We cannot provide any assurance that any patents will be issued from our pending or any future applications or that any current or future issued patents will adequately protect our intellectual property. For this and other risks related to our proprietary 17 technology, inventions and improvements, please see the section entitled “ Risk Factors — Risks Related to Our Business and Operations — Risks Related to Intellectual Property. ” As of December 31, 2021, we owned approximately 170 issued U.S. patents, 85 pending U.S. patent applications, 191 issued foreign patents, 29 pending foreign patent applications and 11 pending Patent Cooperation Treaty patent applications. As of December 31, 2021, we also owned 16 pending U.S. trademark applications, 3 registered U.S. trademarks as well as 137 registered foreign trademarks and 245 pending foreign trademark applications in approximately 31 countries worldwide in addition to the European Union. As of December 31, 2021, we also owned 3 issued U.S. design patents, 35 pending U.S. design patent applications, plus 29 issued foreign design patents/industrial designs and 33 pending foreign design patent/industrial design applications. We expect to develop additional intellectual property and proprietary technology as our engineering and validation activities proceed. Technologies that we have and intend to invest in and develop include engineering software, powertrain systems and controls, infotainment, cybersecurity, telematics and electrical architecture hardware and software. As we develop our technology, we will continue to build our intellectual property portfolio, including by pursuing patent and other intellectual property protection when we believe it is possible, cost-effective, beneficial and consistent with our overall intellectual property protection strategy. In addition to the intellectual property that we own, we also procure key technologies under our supply chain agreements, and we license key technologies under our license agreements. See “— Our Vehicles ” and “— Technology ” above for more information. The terms of individual issued patents extend for varying periods depending on the date of filing of the patent application or the date of patent issuance and the legal term of patents in the countries in which they are obtained. Generally, utility patents issued for applications filed in the United States are granted a term of 20 years from the earliest effective filing date of a non-provisional patent application, assuming the patent has not been terminally disclaimed over a commonly-owned patent or a patent naming a common inventor, or over a patent not commonly owned but that was disqualified as prior art as the result of activities undertaken within the scope of a joint research agreement. The life of a patent, and the protection it affords, is therefore limited and once the patent lives of our issued patents have expired, we may face competition, including from other competing technologies. The duration of foreign patents varies in accordance with provisions of applicable local law, but typically is also 20 years from the earliest effective filing date. The actual protection afforded by a patent may vary from country to country and can depend upon many factors, including the type of patent, the scope of its coverage, the availability of patent term adjustments or extensions, the availability of legal remedies in a particular country and the validity and enforceability of the patent. As a result, our owned patent portfolio may not provide us with sufficient rights to exclude others from commercializing products similar or identical to ours. Furthermore, we rely upon trade secrets and know-how, confidential information, unpatented technologies, continuing technological innovation and other proprietary information to develop, protect and maintain our competitive position and aspects of our business that are not amenable to, or that we do not presently consider appropriate for, patent protection and prevent competitors from reverse engineering or copying our technologies. However, the foregoing rights, technologies and information are difficult to protect. We seek to protect them by, in part, using confidentiality agreements with our employees and consultants and any potential commercial partners and collaborators and invention assignment agreements with our employees. We also have implemented or intend to implement confidentiality agreements or invention assignment agreements with our selected consultants and any potential commercial partners. These agreements are designed to protect our proprietary information and, in the case of the invention assignment agreements, to grant us ownership of technologies that are developed through a relationship with a third party. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. There can be no assurance that these agreements will be self-executing or otherwise provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other intellectual property or proprietary information. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. To the extent that our commercial partners, collaborators, employees and consultants use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. Our commercial success will also depend in part on not infringing, misappropriating or otherwise violating the intellectual or proprietary rights of third parties. The issuance of third-party patents could require us to alter our development or commercial strategies, change our products or processes, obtain licenses to additional third-party patents or other intellectual property or cease certain activities. Our breach of any license agreements or failure to obtain a license to proprietary rights that we may require to develop or commercialize our future products or technologies may have an adverse impact on us. Given that patent applications in the United States and certain other jurisdictions are maintained in secrecy for 18 months or potentially longer, and since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain of the patent protection being sought by third parties and/or the priority of inventions covered by such patent applications. Moreover, we may have to participate in interference, revocation, derivation, re-examination, post-grant review, inter parts review or opposition proceedings brought by third parties or declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or an equivalent 18 foreign body. See “ Risk Factors — Risks Related to Our Business and Operations — Risks Related to Intellectual Property ” for additional information regarding these and other risks related to our intellectual property portfolio and their potential effect on us. HUMAN CAPITAL RESOURCES As of December 31, 2021, we employed approximately 3,900 employees globally. Most of our employees are based in Newark, California at our headquarters or in Casa Grande, Arizona at our electric vehicle manufacturing facility. In addition, many of our employees work throughout our retail store and service center network in major metropolitan areas throughout the United States and Canada. None of our employees are represented by a labor union. We have never experienced any work stoppages and we believe that our employee relations are good. We believe that our mission-first passion to inspire the adoption of sustainable transportation would not be possible without a broad array of experiences, professional and personal backgrounds, and individual identities across our team. We work hard to attract a pool of diverse candidates for all open positions. As of December 31, 2021, approximately 65% of Lucid’s employees in the United States were identified as Black or African American, Hispanic or Latino, Asian, American Indian or Alaskan Native, Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander, and two or more races or ethnicities. Our Culture When design is led by inspiration, invention by insight, and engineering by experience we believe that nothing is impossible. Thinking beyond what is in front of us and designing for a world where life is the most important journey we will ever take, we believe in the dream ahead. Our relentless focus on innovation, luxury, and sustainability moves us toward a future where you no longer must choose between doing great things and doing the right thing. We are a collective of future visionaries; those who can think and do differently, that thrive on challenge and collaboration. Inspired by infinite possibilities, we strive to make a profound difference in the world. We are a team that values innovation, harnesses our passions, and embraces the entrepreneurial mind of limitless potential. We recognize, welcome, and appreciate the unique experiences and diverse perspectives that each of our employees bring with them, that in turn fuel our shared successes. We strive to foster an open, egalitarian culture where all ideas and concerns can be raised to any member of leadership. It is a core belief that each employee has a unique lens which helps propel Lucid’s mission forward. To that end, we urge all employees to communicate their thoughts and to use any channel they deem warranted to share their perspective towards our mission. This approach helps fuel innovation, prevent stumbling blocks, and engages all employees towards being a member of one, unified team. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion We are committed to cultivating a diverse, equitable, and inclusive company to enhance our culture and position Lucid for improved success. In 2021, we launched internal DEI initiatives such as employee training, employee resource groups (e.g. Women at Lucid, Veterans at Lucid, and Pride at Lucid), partnerships for recruiting (e.g. a nonprofit resource for disability inclusion (DisabilityIn), Fairygodboss (one of the largest career communities for women), the Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE), and the Society of Women Engineers (SWE)). We are actively focused on building our DEI strategy with a people centric, data driven approach. We believe that our culture inspires passionate innovators to join Lucid from around the world, positioning us to influence positive change both within the company and externally with our partners. Compensation and Benefits We offer competitive compensation to attract and retain the best people in the world, and we help care for our people so they can focus on our mission. Our employees' total compensation package includes market-competitive cash compensation and equity. We offer full-time employees’ equity at the time of hire and through annual equity grants because we want them to be owners of the company and committed to our long-term success. Safety We have instilled an expectation and culture of safety in our workplace. As a manufacturing company, we are committed to ensuring workplace health, safety and environmental protection for our employees, suppliers, business partners, customers, and all our stakeholders. We protect the health and safety of our employees through a proactive and systematic approach to safety and health management. For example, at our Arizona facility, we have onsite, at-the-ready medical support for any needed medical triage during emergencies. During the COVID-19 pandemic we have implemented robust protocols that meet or exceed CDC guidelines including establishing a 24/7 Response Team for employee questions and contact tracing, offering multiple onsite employee and dependent vaccination clinics, and have or will be implementing 19 vaccination requirements for new hires, and for those seeking entry into many of our facilities. Additionally, in 2022 we are pursuing ISO 45001 certification for our Advanced Manufacturing Plant which establishes a system of continuous improvement to reduce occupational risk and improve worker safety. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT As an electric vehicle company relentlessly focused on efficiency, our products are a key part of transforming the transportation space to a more sustainable model. Through our blend of performance engineered, battery electric powertrain systems with post-luxury design, we seek to entice luxury vehicle customers to switch from ICE vehicles to energy efficient, sustainable electric transportation. But having sustainable products alone is not enough; we are laying the groundwork for a holistic environmental, social, and governance (“ESG”) strategy to maximize our ability to positively impact our environment and society, meet investor expectations, and instill pride and purpose in our employees and customers. • ESG Strategy : We are building the foundation of a leading environmental, social, and governance strategy and program. In 2021, we completed a high-level materiality assessment to identify key topics for our ESG strategy. This effort included insight on investors, ratings and rankings, company leadership interviews, research on peers and consumer trends, and a business/investor media review. Additionally, we formed our Environmental, Social & Governance ESG Steering Committee comprised of senior executive leaders, which is integral to the Company’s governance and strategy for ESG. Once we have built our internal capabilities for data collection and disclosure, we plan to begin high-level reporting on ESG performance, in alignment with leading industry standards. • Green Bond : In 2021, we issued an aggregate of $2.01 billion principal amount of 1.25% convertible senior notes, which have been designated as green bonds. This issuance was one of the largest green convertible offerings in market history to date, and it underscores our commitment to addressing climate change and environmental challenges. Lucid intends to allocate an amount equal to the net proceeds from the notes to finance or refinance, in whole or in part, one or more new or existing “Eligible Green Investments,” including the development, manufacture, or distribution of products, key components, and machinery related to electric vehicles or energy storage systems, as well as investments and expenditures related to renewable energy, energy efficiency, and sustainable water and waste management. • Product Efficiency : We are relentlessly focused on efficient use of the world’s resources, and we are proud that our vehicles have among the highest MPGe ratings in the Large vehicle class. Each extra mile that we extract per kWh of energy means less charging and fewer emissions from the electrical grid. • Expansion of Impact : After establishing our brand based on attention to detail and refinement, we intend to expand our product lineup to broaden our impact on the traditional automotive market. To further accelerate the shift to battery electric transportation, we intend to explore opportunities to sell or license build to print electric powertrain and battery solutions for other automakers to facilitate their adoption of sustainable transportation. We also intend to explore opportunities in adjacent markets such as aerospace and maritime applications. • Environmental operations : In 2021, we began onsite renewable energy generation at our corporate headquarters in California and broke ground on a solar project at our manufacturing facility in Arizona. In 2022, we expect to expand our renewable energy generation and usage further across our network. Additionally, we recycle batteries that are part of the production process and are working on a strategy for end-of-life solutions including reuse of batteries for energy storage systems and closed-loop opportunities. GOVERNANCE We recognize that sound governance practices are critical to ethical business practices and our overall success as an organization and business. • Corporate Governance: Our corporate governance best practices include: a majority independent Board under SEC and Nasdaq rules; a diverse Board with 3 female directors and 3 members of under-represented communities (in addition to two key female executive leaders added in 2021 (CFO and VP Software Validation)); an independent chairman of the Board; no “overboarded” directors; and no classified board structure (all directors must be elected every year). • Business Ethics: We have a publicly available Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and a framework to receive and investigate reports of policy violations. • Compliance: We are implementing a robust compliance program centered around a clear statement of principles and an expectation for both legal compliance and high ethical standards. We intend to achieve these goals through ongoing training and discussions with our employees, clear policies and guidelines, internal controls over financial transactions, technological solutions to automate 20 screenings for legal compliance and a reporting hotline which enables employees and service providers to share allegations of any legal or ethical matters on an anonymous basis. AVAILABLE INFORMATION We are required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. We also maintain an Internet website at https://www.lucidmotors.com. Through our website, we make available, free of charge, the following documents of Lucid as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC: Annual Reports on Form 10-K; proxy statements for our annual and special shareholder meetings; Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q; Current Reports on Form 8-K; Forms 3, 4 and 5 and Schedules 13D; and amendments to those documents. Our SEC filings are available on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. Our website, the SEC’s website and the information contained therein or linked thereto are not part of this Annual Report. 21 Item 1A.