 PART I Item 1. BUSINESS. Summary LCI Industries (“LCII” and collectively with its subsidiaries, the “Company,” the “Registrant,” “we,” “us,” or “our”), through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Lippert Components, Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively, “Lippert Components” or “LCI”), supplies, domestically and internationally, a broad array of engineered components for the leading original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) in the recreation and transportation product markets, consisting of recreational vehicles (“RVs”) and adjacent industries including buses; trailers used to haul boats, livestock, equipment and other cargo; trucks; boats; trains; manufactured homes; and modular housing. The Company also supplies engineered components to the related aftermarkets of these industries, primarily by selling to retail dealers, wholesale distributors, and service centers. LCI’s products include steel chassis and related components; axles and suspension solutions; slide-out mechanisms and solutions; thermoformed bath, kitchen and other products; vinyl, aluminum and frameless windows; manual, electric and hydraulic stabilizer and leveling systems; furniture and mattresses; entry, luggage, patio, and ramp doors; electric and manual entry steps; awning and awning accessories; branded towing products; truck accessories; electronic components; and other accessories. The Company has two reportable segments: the original equipment manufacturers segment (the “OEM Segment”) and the aftermarket segment (the “Aftermarket Segment”). The Company is focused on profitable growth in its industries, both organic and through acquisitions. In order to support this growth, over the past several years the Company has expanded its geographic market and product lines, consolidated manufacturing facilities, and integrated manufacturing, distribution, and administrative functions. At December 31, 2019, the Company operated over 90 manufacturing and distribution facilities located throughout North America and Europe, and reported consolidated net sales of $2.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019. The Company was incorporated under the laws of Delaware on March 20, 1984, and is the successor to Drew National Corporation, which was incorporated under the laws of Delaware in 1962. The Company’s principal executive and administrative offices are located at 3501 County Road 6 East, Elkhart, Indiana 46514; telephone number (574) 535-1125; website www.lci1.com; e-mail LCII@lci1.com. The Company makes available free of charge on its website its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K (and amendments to those reports) filed or furnished with the SEC as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed or furnished. Recent Developments Sales and Profits Consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2019 were $2.4 billion, a decline of 4 percent from the consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2018 of $2.5 billion. The decrease in year-over-year net sales reflects a continuation of lower RV wholesale shipments seen throughout the year as dealers continued to correct their inventory levels, partially offset by continued growth in the Company's adjacent industries OEM, aftermarket and international markets. Net sales from acquisitions completed by the Company over the twelve months ended December 31, 2019 contributed $93 million in 2019. Net income for the full-year 2019 was $146.5 million, or $5.84 per diluted share, compared to net income of $148.6 million, or $5.83 per diluted share, in 2018. Net income for 2018 included one-time non-cash charges of $0.6 million ($0.03 per diluted share) related to the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “TCJA”). Excluding the estimated impact of the TCJA, adjusted net income was $149.2 million, or $5.86 per diluted share, in 2018. Adjusted net income and adjusted net income per diluted share are non-GAAP financial measures. See “Non-GAAP Measures” included in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for additional information regarding the Company's use of non-GAAP financial measures and reconciliations to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). In Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” the Company describes in detail the change in its sales and profits during 2019. 6 Customer Concentrations Thor Industries, Inc. (“Thor”), a customer of both segments, accounted for 27 percent, 31 percent, and 38 percent of the Company’s consolidated net sales for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively. Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (through its subsidiaries Forest River, Inc. and Clayton Homes, Inc.), a customer of both segments, accounted for 21 percent, 23 percent, and 25 percent of the Company’s consolidated net sales for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively. No other customer accounted for more than 10 percent of consolidated net sales in the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017. International sales, primarily in Europe and Australia, and export sales represented approximately six percent, four percent, and two percent of consolidated net sales in 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively. Acquisitions In January 2020, the Company acquired 100 percent of the equity interests of Polyplastic Group B.V. (with its subsidiaries “Polyplastic”), a premier window supplier to the caravaning industry, headquartered in Rotterdam, Netherlands. The purchase price was $97.6 million, net of cash acquired, plus contingent consideration based on future sales by this operation. The results of the acquired business will be included primarily in the Company’s OEM Segment. The Company is in the process of determining the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed for the opening balance sheet. During 2019, the Company completed seven acquisitions: In December 2019, the Company acquired 100 percent of the equity interests of CURT Acquisition Holdings, Inc. (with its subsidiaries, “CURT”), a leading manufacturer and distributor of branded towing products and truck accessories for the aftermarket, headquartered in Eau Claire, Wisconsin. The purchase price was $337.6 million, net of cash acquired, and is subject to potential post-closing adjustments related to net working capital. In November 2019, the Company acquired the PWR-ARM brand and electric powered Bimini business assets of Schwintek, Inc. (“PWR-ARM”), a premier electric sunshade solution for pontoon and smaller power boats. The purchase price was $45.0 million, which includes holdback payments of $5.0 million. In October 2019, the Company acquired substantially all of the business assets (collectively referred to under the business name “SureShade”) of Rodan Enterprises, LLC, a designer and manufacturer of sunshade systems for the outdoor recreation industry in North America and Europe headquartered in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The purchase price was $14.0 million, subject to certain adjustments and a holdback of $1.4 million for indemnity matters and certain potential post-closing adjustments related to net working capital. In August 2019, the Company acquired 100 percent of the equity interests of Ciesse Holdings S.r.l. and related entities (collectively, “Ciesse”), a supplier of railway interior products and systems, headquartered in Rignano sull’Arno, Italy. The purchase price was $5.4 million, net of cash acquired. In August 2019, the Company acquired 100 percent of the equity interests of Lewmar Marine Ltd. and related entities (collectively, “Lewmar”), a supplier of leisure marine equipment, headquartered in Havant, United Kingdom. The purchase price was $43.2 million, net of cash acquired. In June 2019, the Company acquired 100 percent of the equity interests of Lavet S.r.l. (“Lavet”), a manufacturer of window blind systems for European leisure vehicles, headquartered in Siena, Italy. The purchase price was $2.4 million, net of cash acquired. In June 2019, the Company acquired 100 percent of the equity interests of Femto Engineering S.r.l. and related entities (collectively, “Femto”), an engineering company with a focus on designing and manufacturing of plastic moldings, headquartered in San Casciano, Italy. The purchase price was $6.5 million, net of cash acquired. Diversification Strategy The Company is executing a strategic initiative to diversify the markets it serves away from the historical concentration within the North American RV industry. The Company's goal is to have 60 percent of net sales be generated outside of the North American RV industry by the year 2022. Approximately 42 percent of net sales for the year ended December 31, 2019 were generated outside of the North American RV market. 7 Other Developments On December 19, 2019, the Company entered into an amendment to its amended credit agreement with several banks, which provided, among other things, for an incremental term loan in the amount of $300.0 million, which the Company borrowed to fund a portion of the purchase price for the acquisition of CURT. The credit agreement was also modified to allow the Company to request an increase to the facility of up to an additional $300.0 million as an increase to the revolving credit facility or one, or more, incremental term loan facilities upon approval of the lenders and the Company receiving certain other consents. As a result of the new incremental term loan, the total borrowing capacity under the credit agreement increased from $600.0 million to $900.0 million. In August 2019, the Company and Furrion Limited (“Furrion”) agreed to terminate their exclusive distribution and supply agreement effective December 31, 2019, and transition all sale and distribution of Furrion products then handled by the Company to Furrion. Effective January 1, 2020, Furrion is responsible for distributing its products directly to the customer and assumed all responsibilities previously carried out by the Company relating to Furrion products. Upon termination of the agreement, Furrion agreed to purchase from the Company all non-obsolete stock and certain obsolete and slow-moving stock of Furrion products at the cost paid by the Company. Net sales of Furrion products were $100.4 million to the OEM Segment and $29.0 million to the Aftermarket Segment in 2019. These sales will not be recurring in 2020 following the termination of the agreement. OEM Segment Through its wholly-owned subsidiaries, the Company manufactures and distributes a broad array of engineered components for the leading OEMs in the recreation and transportation product markets, consisting of RVs and adjacent industries, including buses; trailers used to haul boats, livestock, equipment and other cargo; trucks; boats; trains; manufactured homes; and modular housing. In 2019, the OEM Segment represented 88 percent of the Company’s consolidated net sales and 83 percent of consolidated segment operating profit. Approximately 61 percent of the Company’s OEM Segment net sales in 2019 were of products to manufacturers of travel trailer and fifth-wheel RVs. RVs may be motorized (motorhomes) or towable (travel trailers, fifth-wheel travel trailers, folding camping trailers and truck campers). Raw materials used by the Company’s OEM Segment, consisting primarily of steel (coil, sheet, tube, and I-beam), extruded aluminum, glass, wood, fabric, and foam, are available from a number of sources, both domestic and foreign. Operations of the Company’s OEM Segment consist primarily of fabricating, welding, thermoforming, painting, sewing, and assembling components into finished products. The Company’s OEM Segment operations are conducted at manufacturing and distribution facilities throughout North America and Europe, strategically located in proximity to the customers they serve. See Item 2. “Properties.” The Company’s OEM Segment products are sold primarily to major manufacturers of RVs such as Thor Industries, Inc. (symbol: THO), Forest River, Inc. (a Berkshire Hathaway company, symbol: BRKA), Winnebago Industries, Inc. (symbol: WGO) and other RV OEMs, and to manufacturers in other adjacent industries, including buses; trailers used to haul boats, livestock, equipment and other cargo; trucks; boats; trains; manufactured homes; and modular housing. The RV industry is highly competitive, both among manufacturers of RVs and the suppliers of RV components, generally with low barriers to entry other than compliance with industry standards, codes and safety requirements, and the initial capital investment required to establish manufacturing operations. The Company competes with several other component suppliers on a regional and national basis with respect to a broad array of components for both towable and motorized RVs. The Company’s operations compete on the basis of product quality and reliability, product innovation, price, customer service, and customer satisfaction. Although definitive information is not readily available, the Company believes it is a leading supplier for towable RVs for the following principal RV products: ● windows, ● axles, ● doors, ● furniture, ● chassis, ● leveling systems, and ● slide-out mechanisms, ● awnings. In addition to LCI, Dexter Axle Company is also a leading supplier of axles and Carefree of Colorado and Dometic Corporation are also leading suppliers of awnings. 8 OEM Segment net sales to adjacent industries increased 7 percent from $614.6 million in 2018 to $659.6 million in 2019, or 32 percent and 27 percent of total OEM Segment net sales in 2019 and 2018, respectively. Within adjacent industries, OEM marine net sales were $167.5 million in 2019, an increase of $13.4 million compared to 2018. The Company’s market share for its products in adjacent industries cannot be readily determined; however, the Company continues to make investments in people, technology, and equipment and is committed to expanding its presence in these industries. Detailed narrative information about the results of operations of the OEM Segment is included in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Aftermarket Segment Many of the Company’s OEM Segment products are also sold through various aftermarket channels, including dealerships, warehouse distributors and service centers, as well as direct to retail customers. The Company has teams dedicated to product training and marketing support for its Aftermarket Segment customers. The Company also supports multiple call centers to provide quick responses to customers for both product delivery and technical support. This support is designed for a rapid response to critical repairs so customer downtime is minimized. The Aftermarket Segment also includes the sale of replacement glass and awnings to fulfill insurance claims, biminis, covers, buoys, and fenders to the marine industry, and towing products and truck accessories. Many of the optional upgrades and non-critical replacements for RVs are purchased outside the normal product selling seasons, thereby causing these Aftermarket Segment sales to be counter-seasonal. According to the Recreation Vehicle Industry Association (“RVIA”), estimated RV ownership in the United States has increased to over nine million units. Additionally, as a result of a vibrant secondary market, one-third of current owners purchased their RV new while the remaining two-thirds purchased a previously owned RV. This vibrant secondary market is a key driver for aftermarket sales, as the Company anticipates owners of previously owned RVs will likely upgrade their units as well as replace parts and accessories which have been subjected to normal wear and tear. Aftermarket Segment net sales increased 20 percent from $233.2 million in 2018 to $279.6 million in 2019. The Company continues to make investments in people and technology to grow the Aftermarket Segment and is committed to continue these expansion efforts. In December 2019, the Company acquired CURT, a leading manufacturer and distributor of branded towing products and truck accessories for the aftermarket. CURT maintains a robust product portfolio comprised of thousands of SKUs across various product lines, including hitches, towing electricals, ball mounts, and cargo management. CURT brands include CURT, Aries, Luverne, Retrac, and UWS. CURT's net sales were $268 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. Detailed narrative information about the results of operations of the Aftermarket Segment is included in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Sales and Marketing The Company’s sales activities are related to developing new customer relationships and maintaining existing customer relationships, primarily through the quality and reliability of its products, innovation, price, customer service, and customer satisfaction. As a result of the Company’s strategic decision to increase its sales to the aftermarket and adjacent industries, as well as expand into international markets, the Company has increased its annual marketing and advertising expenditures over the past few years, which were $6.4 million, $4.1 million, and $3.2 million in 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively. The Company has several supply agreements or other arrangements with certain of its customers that provide for prices of various products to be fixed for periods generally not in excess of eighteen months; however, in certain cases the Company has the right to renegotiate the prices on sixty-days’ notice. The Company has agreements with certain customers that indexes their pricing to select commodities. Both the OEM Segment and the Aftermarket Segment typically ship products on average within one to two weeks of receipt of orders from their customers and, as a result, neither segment has any significant backlog. 9 Capacity At December 31, 2019, the Company operated over 90 manufacturing and distribution facilities across North America and Europe. For most products, the Company has the ability to fill excess demand by shifting production to other facilities, usually at an increased cost. The ability to adjust capacity in certain product areas through lean manufacturing and automation initiatives, reallocation of existing resources and/or additional capital expenditures is monitored regularly by management in an effort to achieve a high level of production efficiency and return on invested capital. The Company has adequate capacity to meet projected demand. Capital expenditures for 2019 were $58 million, which included normal replacement expenditures along with $21 million in automation investments and over $24 million in capacity investments for operational improvements. Seasonality Most industries where the Company sells products or where its products are used historically have been seasonal and generally at the highest levels when the weather is moderate. Accordingly, the Company’s sales and profits have generally been the highest in the second quarter and lowest in the fourth quarter. However, because of fluctuations in dealer inventories, the impact of international, national, and regional economic conditions and consumer confidence on retail sales of recreation and transportation products for which the Company sells its components, the timing of dealer orders, as well as the impact of severe weather conditions on the timing of industry-wide shipments from time to time, current and future seasonal industry trends may be different than in prior years. Additionally, sales of certain components to the aftermarket channels of these industries tend to be counter-seasonal. International Over the past several years, the Company has been gradually growing international sales, primarily in Europe and Australia, and international and export sales represented approximately six percent, four percent, and two percent of consolidated net sales in 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively. The Company continues to focus on developing products tailored for international recreation and transportation markets. The Company participates in the largest RV shows in Europe and has been receiving positive feedback on its products, especially its proprietary slide-out products. The Company’s international business development team spends time in Australia, Europe, and other international markets, assessing the dynamics of the local marketplace, building relationships with OEMs and helping the Company introduce its existing products and develop new products for those markets, with the goal of identifying long-term growth opportunities. The Company estimates the addressable market for annual net sales of its products outside of North America to be over $1 billion. Financial information relating to certain of the Company’s international acquisitions is included in Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report. Intellectual Property The Company holds approximately 350 United States and foreign patents and has approximately 100 patent applications pending that relate to various products sold by the Company. The Company has also granted certain licenses that permit third parties to manufacture and sell products in consideration for royalty payments. From time to time, the Company has received notices or claims it may be infringing certain patent or other intellectual property rights of others, and the Company has given notices to, or asserted claims against, others that they may be infringing certain patent or other intellectual property rights of the Company. The Company believes its patents are valuable and vigorously protects its patents when appropriate. Research and Development The Company strives to be an industry leader in product innovation and is focused on developing new products, as well as improving existing products. Research and development expenditures are expensed as they are incurred. Research and development expenses were approximately $14 million, $16 million, and $14 million in 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively. Regulatory Matters We are subject to numerous federal, state and local regulations governing the manufacture and sale of our products in the United States. Sales and manufacturing operations outside the United States are subject to similar regulations. Rules promulgated under the Transportation Recall Enhancement, Accountability and Documentation Act require manufacturers of motor vehicles and certain motor vehicle related equipment to regularly make reports and submit documents 10 and certain historical data to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (“NHTSA”) of the United States Department of Transportation (“DOT”) to enhance motor vehicle safety, and to respond to requests for information relating to specific complaints or incidents. Trailers produced by the Company for hauling boats, personal watercraft, snowmobiles and equipment must comply with Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards (“FMVSS”) promulgated by NHTSA relating to lighting, braking, wheels, tires and other vehicle systems. Windows and doors produced by the Company for the RV industry must comply with regulations promulgated by NHTSA governing safety glass performance, egress ability, door hinge and lock systems, egress window retention hardware, and baggage door ventilation. Windows produced by the Company for buses also must comply with FMVSS promulgated by NHTSA. Upholstered products and mattresses produced by the Company for RVs and buses must comply with FMVSS promulgated by NHTSA regarding flammability. In addition, upholstered products and mattresses produced by the Company for RVs must comply with regulations promulgated by the Consumer Product Safety Commission regarding flammability, as well as standards for toxic chemical levels and labeling requirements promulgated by the California Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment. Plywood, particleboard and fiberboard used in RV products are required to comply with standards for formaldehyde emission levels promulgated by the California Air Resources Board and adopted by the RVIA. Windows and entry doors produced by the Company for manufactured homes must comply with performance and construction regulations promulgated by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”) and by the American Architectural Manufacturers Association relating to air and water infiltration, structural integrity, thermal performance, emergency exit conformance, and hurricane resistance. Certain of the Company’s products must also comply with the International Code Council standards, such as the IRC (International Residential Code), the IBC (International Building Code), and the IECC (International Energy Conservation Code) as well as state and local building codes. Thermoformed bath products manufactured by the Company for manufactured homes must comply with performance and construction regulations promulgated by HUD. The Company believes it is currently operating in compliance, in all material respects, with applicable laws and regulations and has made reports and submitted information as required. The Company does not believe the expense of compliance with these laws and regulations, as currently in effect, will have a material effect on the Company's operations, financial condition or competitive position; however, there can be no assurance this trend will continue as health and safety laws, regulations or other pertinent requirements evolve. Environmental The Company’s operations are subject to certain federal, state and local regulatory requirements relating to the use, storage, discharge, transport and disposal of hazardous materials used during the manufacturing processes. Although the Company believes its operations have been consistent with prevailing industry standards, and are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations, one or more of the Company’s current or former operating sites, or adjacent sites owned by third parties, have been affected, and may in the future be affected, by releases of hazardous materials. As a result, the Company may incur expenditures for future investigation and remediation of these sites, including in conjunction with voluntary remediation programs or third-party claims. In the past, environmental compliance costs have not had, and are not expected in the future to have, a material effect on the Company’s operations or financial condition; however, there can be no assurance that this trend will continue. Employees As of December 31, 2019, the Company had approximately 10,500 full-time employees. None of the employees of the Company in the U.S. are subject to collective bargaining agreements, although certain international employees are covered by national labor laws. The Company believes relations with its employees are good. 11 Information About our Executive Officers The following table sets forth our executive officers as of December 31, 2019: Name Position Jason D. Lippert Chief Executive Officer and Director Brian M. Hall Chief Financial Officer Andrew J. Namenye Vice President – Chief Legal Officer and Secretary Jamie M. Schnur Group President – Aftermarket Nick C. Fletcher Chief Human Resources Officer Officers are elected annually by the Board of Directors. There are no family relationships between or among any of the executive officers or directors of the Company. Additional information with respect to the Company’s directors is included in the Company’s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 21, 2020. JASON D. LIPPERT (age 47) became Chief Executive Officer of the Company effective May 10, 2013, and has been Chief Executive Officer of Lippert Components since February 2003. Mr. Lippert has over 20 years of experience with the Company, and has served in a wide range of leadership positions. BRIAN M. HALL (age 45) joined the Company in March 2013, served as Corporate Controller from June 2013 until January 2017, and has served as Chief Financial Officer of the Company since November 2016. Prior to joining the Company, he spent more than 16 years in public accounting. ANDREW J. NAMENYE (age 39) joined the Company in September 2017, and has been Vice President – Chief Legal Officer and Secretary since November 2017. Prior to joining the Company, he held roles in senior level positions at Thor Industries, Inc. and All American Group, Inc. (f/k/a Coachmen Industries), and practiced law at Barnes & Thornburg LLP. JAMIE M. SCHNUR (age 48) became Group President – Aftermarket of the Company in October 2019. Previously, he served as Chief Administrative Officer of the Company beginning in May 2013. Mr. Schnur has over 20 years of experience with the Company, and has served in a wide range of leadership positions with Lippert Components. NICK C. FLETCHER (age 59) joined the Company in February 2013 as Vice President of Human Resources. Since January 2015, he has been Chief Human Resources Officer. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Fletcher provided consulting services and held roles in senior level positions at American Commercial Lines, Continental Tire, Wabash National, Siemens and TRW. Other Officers KIP A. EMENHISER (age 46) joined the Company in January 2017, and has been Vice President of Finance since September 2019 and Corporate Controller and our principal accounting officer since March 2017. Prior to joining the Company, he held various roles including Senior Vice President of Finance, Chief Accounting Officer, and Vice President and Corporate Controller at Press Ganey Associates, Inc. Mr. Emenhiser is a Certified Public Accountant. Item 1A.