 PART I Item 1. BUSINESS. Summary LCI Industries ("LCII" and collectively with its subsidiaries, the "Company," the "Registrant," "we," "us," or "our"), through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Lippert Components, Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively, "Lippert Components," "LCI" or "Lippert"), supplies, domestically and internationally, a broad array of highly engineered components for the leading original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs") in the recreation and transportation product markets, consisting primarily of recreational vehicles ("RVs") and adjacent industries, including buses; trailers used to haul boats, livestock, equipment, and other cargo; trucks; boats; trains; manufactured homes; and modular housing. We also supply engineered components to the related aftermarkets of these industries, primarily by selling to retail dealers, wholesale distributors, and service centers. Our products include steel chassis and related components; axles and suspension solutions; slide-out mechanisms and solutions; thermoformed bath, kitchen, and other products; vinyl, aluminum, and frameless windows; manual, electric, and hydraulic stabilizer and leveling systems; entry, luggage, patio, and ramp doors; furniture and mattresses; electric and manual entry steps; awnings and awning accessories; towing products; truck accessories; electronic components; appliances; air conditioners; televisions and sound systems; and other accessories. We have two reportable segments: the original equipment manufacturers segment (the "OEM Segment") and the aftermarket segment (the "Aftermarket Segment"). We are focused on profitable growth and margin stability in our industries, both organic and through acquisitions. In order to support this growth, over the past several years we have expanded our geographic market and product lines, and integrated manufacturing, distribution, and administrative functions. At December 31, 2021, we operated over 120 manufacturing and distribution facilities located throughout North America and Europe, and reported consolidated net sales of $4.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2021. The Company was incorporated under the laws of Delaware on March 20, 1984, and is the successor to Drew National Corporation, which was incorporated under the laws of Delaware in 1962. Our principal executive and administrative offices are located at 3501 County Road 6 East, Elkhart, Indiana 46514; telephone number (574) 535-1125; website www.lci1.com; e-mail LCII@lci1.com. We make available free of charge on our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K (and amendments to those reports) filed or furnished with the SEC as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed or furnished. Recent Developments COVID-19 Pandemic The coronavirus ("COVID-19") pandemic has caused significant uncertainty and disruption in the global economy and financial markets. We continue to closely monitor the impact of COVID-19 on all aspects of our business. For risks relating to the COVID-19 pandemic, see Item 1A. "Risk Factors" in Part I of this Report and for details on the impact of COVID-19 on the Company, see the section under the heading "Impact of COVID-19" in Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Part II of this Report. Sales and Profits Consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2021 were $4.5 billion, an increase of 60 percent from the consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2020 of $2.8 billion. The increase in year-over-year net sales was primarily driven by record RV retail demand, the impact of acquisitions, and organic growth in the Aftermarket Segment. We believe the increased RV retail demand was partially driven by consumers seeking COVID-19-related alternative vacation options that avoid large gatherings and allow for social distancing. The increase in year-over-year net sales was also positively impacted by continued growth in our adjacent industries OEM, aftermarket, and international markets, all of which saw rebounds in demand following the initial COVID-19 shutdowns in 2020. Net sales from acquisitions completed in 2021 and 2020 contributed approximately $269.9 million to net sales in 2021. Net income for the full-year 2021 was $287.7 million, or $11.32 per diluted share, compared to net income of $158.4 million, or $6.27 per diluted share, in 2020. 3 In Part II, Item 7. "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," we describe in detail the change in our sales and profits during 2021. Customer Concentrations Thor Industries, Inc. ("Thor"), a customer of both segments, accounted for 23 percent, 21 percent, and 27 percent of our consolidated net sales for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019, respectively. Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (through its subsidiaries Forest River, Inc. and Clayton Homes, Inc.), a customer of both segments, accounted for 20 percent, 19 percent, and 21 percent of our consolidated net sales for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019, respectively. No other customer accounted for more than 10 percent of consolidated net sales in the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019. Accounts receivable from Berkshire Hathaway Inc. accounted for 14 percent of consolidated accounts receivable, net at December 31, 2021. No other customer accounted for more than 10 percent of consolidated accounts receivable, net at December 31, 2021 and 2020. International sales and export sales represented approximately eight percent, eight percent, and six percent of consolidated net sales in 2021, 2020, and 2019, respectively. Acquisitions During 2021, we completed six acquisitions: In October 2021, the Company acquired certain business assets of Stampede Presentation Products, Inc. d/b/a Exertis ("Exertis"), a global distribution company, in exchange for $39.7 million. The acquisition qualifies as a business combination for accounting purposes and supports the recent acquisition of Furrion Holdings Limited ("Furrion") by allowing the Company to provide logistics and warehousing to serve Furrion's North American customer base. In September 2021, the Company acquired 100 percent of the share capital of Furrion, a leading distributor of a large range of appliances and other products to OEMs and aftermarket customers in the RV, specialty vehicle, utility trailer, horse trailer, marine, transit bus, and school bus industries. The total fair value of consideration, net of cash acquired, was approximately $146.7 million. The Company paid $50.5 million in cash consideration at closing, net of cash acquired, with fixed payments of $31.3 million due on each of the first and second anniversaries of the acquisition in September 2022 and September 2023. At the date of the Furrion acquisition in September 2021, the Company had a receivable balance of $35.0 million and Furrion had a corresponding payable balance. In direct connection with the acquisition negotiations, the receivable and payable were effectively settled in the acquisition and the receivable balance is included within the approximate $146.7 million of consideration transferred. Net sales for Furrion were approximately $197 million for the twelve months preceding the acquisition. In April 2021, the Company acquired 100 percent of the equity interests of Schaudt GmbH Elektrotechnik & Apparatebau ("Schaudt"), a leading supplier of electronic controls and energy management systems for the European caravan industry located in Markdorf, Germany. The purchase price was approximately $29.4 million. Net sales for Schaudt were approximately $25 million for the twelve months preceding the acquisition. In April 2021, the Company acquired 100 percent of the equity interests of Kaspar Ranch Hand Equipment, LLC ("Ranch Hand"), a manufacturer of custom bumpers, grill guards, and steps for the automotive aftermarket headquartered in Shiner, Texas. The purchase price was approximately $56.9 million, plus contingent consideration up to $3.0 million. Net sales for Ranch Hand were approximately $49 million for the twelve months preceding the acquisition. During the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company completed two other acquisitions totaling $17.8 million of cash purchase consideration, plus holdback payments of $2.1 million to be paid over the next two years and contingent consideration of up to $2.0 million. Holdback payments of $0.6 million were paid during the year ended December 31, 2021. Net sales for these acquisitions were approximately $23 million for the twelve months preceding the acquisitions. Diversification Strategy The Company is executing a strategic initiative to diversify the markets it serves away from the historical concentration within the North American RV OEM industry. Approximately 47 percent of net sales for the year ended December 31, 2021 were generated outside of the North American RV OEM market compared to 50 percent in 2020. The percentage of net sales generated outside of the North American RV OEM market in 2021 declined compared to the 2020 percentage due to record demand in the North American RV OEM market, which more than offset our diversification efforts. 4 Other Developments In August 2019, the Company and Furrion agreed to terminate their exclusive distribution and supply agreement effective December 31, 2019, and transition all sale and distribution of Furrion products then handled by the Company to Furrion. Effective January 1, 2020, Furrion took responsibility for distributing its products directly to the customer and assumed all responsibilities previously carried out by the Company relating to Furrion products. Upon termination of the agreement, Furrion agreed to purchase from the Company all non-obsolete stock and certain obsolete and slow-moving stock of Furrion products at the cost paid by the Company. Net sales of Furrion products were $100.4 million to the OEM Segment and $29.0 million to the Aftermarket Segment in 2019. These sales were not recurring in 2020 following the termination of the agreement. As noted above, the Company acquired Furrion in September 2021. The previously outstanding receivable related to the termination of the previous distribution and supply agreement was settled at the acquisition date. OEM Segment Through our wholly-owned subsidiaries, we manufacture and distribute a broad array of highly engineered components for the leading OEMs in the recreation and transportation product markets, consisting primarily of RVs and adjacent industries, including buses; trailers used to haul boats, livestock, equipment, and other cargo; trucks; boats; trains; manufactured homes; and modular housing. In 2021, the OEM Segment represented 81 percent of our consolidated net sales and 76 percent of consolidated segment operating profit. Approximately 63 percent of our OEM Segment net sales in 2021 were from products to manufacturers of travel trailer and fifth-wheel RVs. RVs may be motorized (motorhomes) or towable (travel trailers, fifth-wheel travel trailers, folding camping trailers, and truck campers). Raw materials used by our OEM Segment, consisting primarily of steel (coil, sheet, tube, and I-beam), extruded aluminum, glass, wood, fabric, and foam, are available from a number of sources, both domestic and foreign. Operations of our OEM Segment consist primarily of fabricating, welding, thermoforming, painting, sewing, and assembling components into finished products. Our OEM Segment operations are conducted at manufacturing and distribution facilities throughout North America and Europe, strategically located in proximity to the customers they serve. See Item 2. "Properties." Our OEM Segment products are sold primarily to major manufacturers of RVs such as Thor Industries, Inc. (symbol: THO), Forest River, Inc. (a Berkshire Hathaway company, symbol: BRKA), Winnebago Industries, Inc. (symbol: WGO) and other RV OEMs, and to manufacturers in other adjacent industries, including buses; trailers used to haul boats, livestock, equipment and other cargo; trucks; boats; trains; manufactured homes; and modular housing. The RV industry is highly competitive, both among manufacturers of RVs and the suppliers of RV components, generally with low barriers to entry other than compliance with industry standards, codes and safety requirements, and the initial capital investment required to establish manufacturing operations. We compete with several other component suppliers on a regional and national basis with respect to a broad array of components for both towable and motorized RVs. Our operations compete on the basis of product quality and reliability, product innovation, price, customer service, and customer satisfaction. Although definitive information is not readily available, we believe we are a leading supplier for towable RVs for the following principal RV products: ● windows, ● axles, ● doors, ● furniture, ● chassis, ● leveling systems, and ● slide-out mechanisms, ● awnings. OEM Segment net sales to adjacent industries increased 58 percent from $688.2 million in 2020 to $1.1 billion in 2021, and was 30 percent and 32 percent of total OEM Segment net sales in 2021 and 2020, respectively. Within adjacent industries, domestic and international OEM marine net sales totaled $441.1 million in 2021, an increase of $221.0 million compared to 2020. Our market share for our products in adjacent industries cannot be readily determined; however, we continue to make investments in acquisitions, people, technology, and equipment and we are committed to expanding our presence in these industries. 5 Detailed narrative information about the results of operations of the OEM Segment is included in Part II, Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Aftermarket Segment Many of our OEM Segment products are also sold through various aftermarket channels of the recreation and transportation product markets, primarily to retail dealers, wholesale distributors, and service centers, as well as direct to retail customers via the Internet. This includes discretionary accessories and replacement service parts. We have teams dedicated to product, technical, and installation training as well as marketing support for our Aftermarket Segment customers. We also support multiple call centers to provide responses to customers for both product delivery and technical support. This support is designed for a rapid response to critical repairs, so customer downtime is minimal. The Aftermarket Segment also includes biminis, covers, buoys, fenders to the marine industry, towing products, truck accessories, appliances, air conditioners, televisions, sound systems, and the sale of replacement glass and awnings to fulfill insurance claims. Many of the optional upgrades and non-critical replacements for RVs are purchased outside the normal product selling seasons, thereby causing certain Aftermarket Segment sales to be counter-seasonal, but this may be different in future years as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and related impacts. According to Go RVing, estimated RV ownership in the United States as of 2020 had increased to over 11 million households. This vibrant market is a key driver for aftermarket sales, as we anticipate owners will likely upgrade their units as well as replace parts and accessories which have been subjected to normal wear and tear. Aftermarket Segment net sales increased 32 percent from $628.3 million in 2020 to $829.1 million in 2021. Sales from CURT products, which we acquired in December 2019, accounted for approximately half of our Aftermarket Segment net sales in each of 2020 and 2021. CURT is a leading manufacturer and distributor of branded towing products and truck accessories and sells products to the automotive and truck aftermarket, as well as the RV, marine, and trailer markets, all of which require towing products, which we believe compliments the OEM markets we serve. We continue to make investments in people and technology to grow the Aftermarket Segment and we are committed to continue these expansion efforts. Detailed narrative information about the results of operations of the Aftermarket Segment is included in Part II, Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Sales and Marketing Our sales activities are related to developing new customer relationships and maintaining existing customer relationships, primarily through the quality and reliability of our products, innovation, price, customer service, and customer satisfaction. Our annual marketing and advertising expenditures were $17.4 million, $10.4 million, and $6.4 million, in 2021, 2020, and 2019, respectively, reflecting increased expenditures related to our strategic decision to increase our sales to the aftermarket and adjacent industries, as well as expand into international markets. We have several supply agreements or other arrangements with certain of our customers that provide for prices of various products to be fixed for periods generally not in excess of eighteen months; however, in certain cases we have the right to renegotiate the prices on sixty-days' notice. We have agreements with certain customers that index their pricing to select commodities. Both the OEM Segment and the Aftermarket Segment typically ship products on average within one to two weeks of receipt of orders from their customers and, as a result, neither segment has any significant backlog. Capacity At December 31, 2021, we operated over 120 manufacturing and distribution facilities across North America and Europe. For most products, we have the ability to fill excess demand by shifting production to other facilities, usually at an increased cost. The ability to adjust capacity in certain product areas through lean manufacturing and automation initiatives, reallocation of existing resources and/or additional capital expenditures is monitored regularly by management in an effort to achieve a high level of production efficiency and return on invested capital. We believe we have adequate capacity to meet projected demand. Capital expenditures for 2021 were $99 million, which included normal replacement expenditures along 6 with over $20 million in automation investments and approximately $20 million in capacity investments for operational improvements. Seasonality Most industries where we sell products or where our products are used historically have been seasonal and are generally at the highest levels when the weather is moderate. Accordingly, our sales and profits have generally been the highest in the second quarter and lowest in the fourth quarter. However, because of fluctuations in dealer inventories, the impact of international, national, and regional economic conditions, consumer confidence on retail sales of RVs and other products for which we sell our components, the timing of dealer orders, and the impact of severe weather conditions on the timing of industry-wide shipments from time to time, current and future seasonal industry trends have been, and may in the future be, different than in prior years, particularly as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and related impacts. Additionally, many of the optional upgrades and non-critical replacement parts for RVs are purchased outside the normal product selling season, thereby causing these Aftermarket Segment sales to be counter-seasonal, but this has been, and may in the future be, different as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and related impacts. International Over the past several years, we have been gradually growing international sales, primarily in Europe and Australia. International and export sales represented approximately eight percent, eight percent, and six percent of consolidated net sales in 2021, 2020, and 2019, respectively. We continue to focus on developing products tailored for international recreation and transportation markets. We participate in the largest caravan shows in Europe and have been receiving positive feedback on our products. Recently, some of the product innovations we developed for European markets have been gaining popularity in the United States as well. Our international business development team works with customers and prospects in Australia, Europe, and other international markets, assessing the dynamics of the local marketplace, building relationships with OEMs and helping introduce our existing products and develop new products for those markets, with the goal of identifying long-term growth opportunities. We target the same international product markets that we supply to in the United States, including RV, adjacent industries such as marine, cargo trailers, and high-speed trains, and the related aftermarkets. Our largest domestic customer, Thor, established a presence in the European caravan market through their 2019 acquisition of Erwin Hymer Group, which has provided additional business opportunities for us in Europe. We estimate the addressable market for annual net sales of our products outside of North America to be over $1 billion. Financial information relating to certain of our international acquisitions is included in Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report. Intellectual Property We hold approximately 540 United States and foreign patents and have approximately 200 patent applications pending that relate to various products we sell. We have also granted certain licenses that permit third parties to manufacture and sell products in consideration for royalty payments. From time to time, we have received notices or claims we may be infringing certain patent or other intellectual property rights of others, and we have given notices to, or asserted claims against, others that they may be infringing certain patent or other intellectual property rights of the Company. We believe our patents are valuable and we vigorously protect our patents when appropriate. Research and Development We strive to be an industry leader in product innovation and are focused on developing new products, as well as improving existing products. Research and development expenditures are expensed as they are incurred. Research and development expenses were approximately $17 million, $13 million, and $14 million in 2021, 2020, and 2019, respectively. Regulatory Matters We are subject to numerous federal, state and local regulations governing the manufacture and sale of our products in the United States. Sales and manufacturing operations outside the United States are subject to similar regulations. Rules promulgated under the Transportation Recall Enhancement, Accountability and Documentation Act require manufacturers of motor vehicles and certain motor vehicle related equipment to regularly make reports and submit documents and certain historical data to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration ("NHTSA") of the United States Department 7 of Transportation ("DOT") to enhance motor vehicle safety, and to respond to requests for information relating to specific complaints or incidents. Trailers produced by the Company for hauling boats, personal watercraft, snowmobiles and equipment must comply with Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards ("FMVSS") promulgated by NHTSA relating to lighting, braking, wheels, tires and other vehicle systems. Windows and doors produced by the Company for the RV industry must comply with regulations promulgated by NHTSA governing safety glass performance, egress ability, door hinge and lock systems, egress window retention hardware, and baggage door ventilation. Windows produced by the Company for buses also must comply with FMVSS promulgated by NHTSA. Upholstered products and mattresses produced by the Company for RVs and buses must comply with FMVSS promulgated by NHTSA regarding flammability. In addition, upholstered products and mattresses produced by the Company for RVs must comply with regulations promulgated by the Consumer Product Safety Commission regarding flammability, as well as standards for toxic chemical levels and labeling requirements promulgated by the California Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment. Plywood, particleboard and fiberboard used in RV products are required to comply with standards for formaldehyde emission levels promulgated by the California Air Resources Board and adopted by the Recreation Vehicle Industry Association "RVIA". Windows and entry doors produced by the Company for manufactured homes must comply with performance and construction regulations promulgated by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development ("HUD") and by the American Architectural Manufacturers Association relating to air and water infiltration, structural integrity, thermal performance, emergency exit conformance, and hurricane resistance. Certain of the Company’s products must also comply with the International Code Council standards, such as the IRC (International Residential Code), the IBC (International Building Code), and the IECC (International Energy Conservation Code) as well as state and local building codes. Thermoformed bath products manufactured by the Company for manufactured homes must comply with performance and construction regulations promulgated by HUD. We believe we are currently operating in compliance, in all material respects, with applicable laws and regulations and have made reports and submitted information as required. We do not believe the expense of compliance with these laws and regulations, as currently in effect, will have a material effect on our operations, financial condition or competitive position; however, there can be no assurance this trend will continue as health and safety laws, regulations or other pertinent requirements evolve. Environmental Our operations are subject to certain federal, state and local regulatory requirements relating to the use, storage, discharge, transport and disposal of hazardous materials used during the manufacturing processes. Although we believe our operations have been consistent with prevailing industry standards and are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations, one or more of our current or former operating sites, or adjacent sites owned by third parties, have been affected, and may in the future be affected, by releases of hazardous materials. As a result, we may incur expenditures for future investigation and remediation of these sites, including in conjunction with voluntary remediation programs or third-party claims. In the past, environmental compliance costs have not had, and are not expected in the future to have, a material effect on our results of operations or financial condition; however, there can be no assurance that this trend will continue. Human Capital As of December 31, 2021, Lippert had approximately 13,900 full-time team members, including 12,300 in North America and 1,600 in Europe. Our U.S. team members are not subject to any collective bargaining agreements, although certain international team members are covered by national labor laws. We believe relations with our team members are good. At Lippert, we believe that business can and should be a force for good in our world, and we strive to manifest that vision every day in how we lead our organization. Our mission is to make lives better by developing meaningful relationships with our customers, co-workers, and community. "Everyone Matters" is the overarching descriptor of our cultural strategy; this fundamental appreciation of the men and women who make up our organization guides our business. 8 Leadership and Culture Development Our Leadership and Culture Development Team focuses on leadership development, personal and professional development, training, and corporate and community impact. This Team meets regularly with leaders and team members across the Company to develop action plans and goals focused on both personal and professional development. The Team also supports our team member engagement survey twice a year to measure and evaluate engagement drivers and helps build specific action plans in response to the survey results to continually improve our culture and team member engagement. We believe our future success depends on our continued ability to attract, retain, and motivate qualified team members. Our retention percentage for team members in North America for the year ended December 31, 2021 was 60 percent, a decline from the prior year retention of 69 percent. We believe the decline was driven by a competitive labor market since the RV and marine industries rebounded following the initial COVID-19 shutdowns in 2020. Community Involvement We strive to create meaningful change and inspire a culture of giving by building positive relationships and aligning Company resources with our team members' time and talents to support the needs of our communities. From 2017 to 2019, and again in 2021, our team members reached our collective goal of volunteering at least 100,000 hours of community service annually within the communities where we live, work, and play. Although the COVID-19 pandemic prevented us from reaching our 100,000 hour goal in 2020, we were still able to volunteer over 67,000 hours. Through monetary donations, product donations, and company-wide fundraising events, we donate more than $1 million annually to support the needs of our communities. We focus our efforts on children and families in need, educational programs, community health and wellness, and LCI team members in crisis. Benefits and Compensation To attract and motivate team members, we offer competitive compensation and benefits. Our compensation packages include base salary/wages, and short and long-term incentives. We also offer team members benefits such as life, disability, and health (medical, dental, and vision) insurance, a 401(k) plan with a company match, paid time off, tuition reimbursement, military leave, parental bonding leave, and holiday pay. In 2021, we also launched a new well-being initiative to provide team members with resources to improve their physical and emotional health. Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging We are committed to creating and maintaining a workplace in which all team members have an opportunity to participate and contribute to the success of the business and are valued for their skills, experience, and unique perspectives. This commitment is embodied in our policies and the way we do business. While diversity is essential in our business practice, inclusion and belonging are very important as well. Diversity reflects the differences we have in our workforce, inclusion is defined as how we as team members include others, and belonging is how we feel as members of our LCI family. We are committed to fostering an environment where all three are expected. Our policies provide for equal employment opportunity to all team members and applicants without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, pregnancy, national origin, ancestry, age, genetic information, disability, citizen status, veteran status, military service, marital status or any other legally protected category as established by federal, state, or local law. Our equal employment opportunity policy governs all employment decisions, including recruitment, hiring, job assignment, compensation, training, promotion, discipline, transfer, leave-of-absence, access to benefits, layoff, recall, termination and other personnel matters. Health and Safety We maintain a work environment designed to provide a safe and healthy workplace for all team members. We focus our efforts on compliance with applicable laws and regulations regarding workplace safety, including recognition and control of workplace hazards, tracking injury and illness rates, and providing safety equipment to our team members. During 2021, our experience and continuing focus on workplace safety enabled us to preserve business continuity without sacrificing our commitment to keeping our team members safe during the COVID-19 pandemic. 9 Information About our Executive Officers The following table sets forth our executive officers as of December 31, 2021: Name Position Jason D. Lippert President and Chief Executive Officer Brian M. Hall Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Andrew J. Namenye Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer, and Corporate Secretary Ryan R. Smith Group President – North America Jamie M. Schnur Group President – Aftermarket Nick C. Fletcher Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer Officers are elected annually by the Board of Directors. There are no family relationships between or among any of the executive officers or directors of the Company. Additional information with respect to the Company's directors is included in the Company's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 19, 2022. JASON D. LIPPERT (age 49) became Chief Executive Officer of the Company effective May 10, 2013, and has been Chief Executive Officer of Lippert Components since February 2003. Effective May 23, 2019, Mr. Lippert also became President of the Company. Mr. Lippert has over 27 years of experience with the Company and has served in a wide range of leadership positions. BRIAN M. HALL (age 46) joined the Company in March 2013, served as Corporate Controller from June 2013 until January 2017, and has served as Chief Financial Officer of the Company since November 2016. Effective March 12, 2020, Mr. Hall also became an Executive Vice President of the Company. Prior to joining the Company, he spent more than 16 years in public accounting. Mr. Hall is a Certified Public Accountant. ANDREW J. NAMENYE (age 41) joined the Company in September 2017 and has been Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary since November 2017. Effective March 12, 2020, Mr. Namenye also became an Executive Vice President of the Company. Prior to joining the Company, he held roles in senior level positions at Thor Industries, Inc. and All American Group, Inc. (f/k/a Coachmen Industries), and practiced law at Barnes & Thornburg LLP. RYAN R. SMITH (age 38) became Group President – North America of the Company in May 2020. Previously, he served as Senior Vice President of Sales and Operations of the Company beginning in August of 2018. Mr. Smith has over 15 years of experience with the Company and has served in a wide range of leadership positions with Lippert Components. JAMIE M. SCHNUR (age 50) became Group President – Aftermarket of the Company in May 2020. Previously, he served as Chief Administrative Officer of the Company beginning in May 2013. Mr. Schnur has over 25 years of experience with the Company and has served in a wide range of leadership positions with Lippert Components. NICK C. FLETCHER (age 61) joined the Company in February 2013 as Vice President of Human Resources. Since January 2015, he has been Chief Human Resources Officer. Effective March 12, 2020, Mr. Fletcher also became an Executive Vice President of the Company. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Fletcher provided consulting services and held roles in senior level positions at American Commercial Lines, Continental Tire, Wabash National, Siemens and TRW. Other Officers KIP A. EMENHISER (age 48) joined the Company in January 2017 and has been Vice President of Finance since September 2019 and Corporate Controller and our principal accounting officer since March 2017. Prior to joining the Company, he held various roles including Senior Vice President of Finance, Chief Accounting Officer, and Vice President and Corporate Controller at Press Ganey Associates, Inc. Mr. Emenhiser is a Certified Public Accountant. 10 Item 1A.