 Item 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. This Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in Part II, Item 8 of this Report. This Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations generally discusses 2020 and 2019 items and year-over-year comparisons between 2020 and 2019. A detailed discussion of 2018 items and year-over-year comparisons between 2019 and 2018 that are not included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K can be found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, filed with the SEC on February 27, 2020. The Company, through its wholly-owned subsidiary, LCI, supplies, domestically and internationally, a broad array of engineered components for the leading OEMs in the recreation and transportation product markets, consisting of RVs and adjacent industries including buses; trailers used to haul boats, livestock, equipment and other cargo; trucks; boats; trains; manufactured homes; and modular housing. We also supply engineered components to the related aftermarkets of these industries, primarily by selling to retail dealers, wholesale distributors, and service centers. We have two reportable segments, the OEM Segment and the Aftermarket Segment. At December 31, 2020, we operated over 100 manufacturing and distribution facilities located throughout North America and Europe. 24 Net sales and operating profit were as follows for the years ended December 31: Corporate expenses are allocated between the segments based upon net sales. Net sales and operating profit by segment, as a percent of the total, were as follows for the years ended December 31: Operating profit margin by segment was as follows for the years ended December 31: Operating profit margins were negatively impacted by government-mandated shutdowns related to the COVID-19 pandemic from late March through early May 2020, that caused a significant reduction in net sales while still incurring certain employee salary and wages, healthcare and safety expenses, and other fixed costs. Our OEM Segment manufactures and distributes a broad array of engineered components for the leading OEMs of RVs and adjacent industries, including buses; trailers used to haul boats, livestock, equipment and other cargo; trucks; boats; 25 trains; manufactured homes; and modular housing. Approximately 61 percent of our OEM Segment net sales for the year ended December 31, 2020 were of components for travel trailer and fifth-wheel RVs, including: ● Steel chassis and related components ● Entry, luggage, patio and ramp doors ● Axles and suspension solutions ● Furniture and mattresses ● Slide-out mechanisms and solutions ● Electric and manual entry steps ● Thermoformed bath, kitchen and other products ● Awnings and awning accessories ● Vinyl, aluminum and frameless windows ● Electronic components ● Manual, electric and hydraulic stabilizer and leveling systems ● Other accessories The Aftermarket Segment supplies many of these components to the related aftermarket channels of the RV and adjacent industries, primarily to retail dealers, wholesale distributors, and service centers, as well as direct to retail customers through e-commerce. The Aftermarket Segment also includes the sale of replacement glass and awnings to fulfill insurance claims, biminis, covers, buoys, and fenders to the marine industry, and towing products and truck accessories. Diversification Strategy We are executing a strategic initiative to diversify the markets we serve away from the historical concentration within the North American RV OEM industry. Our goal is to have 60 percent of net sales be generated outside of the North American RV OEM industry by the end of 2022. Approximately 50 percent of net sales for the year ended December 31, 2020 were generated outside of the North American RV OEM market compared to 42 percent in 2019. Over the past three years, each of our acquisitions have contributed to net sales growth outside of the North American RV OEM industry. Impact of COVID-19 The COVID-19 pandemic has caused significant uncertainty and disruption in the global economy and financial markets. We continue to closely monitor the impact of COVID-19 on all aspects of our business. For risks relating to the COVID-19 pandemic, see Item 1A. "Risk Factors" in Part I of this Report. Health and Safety During this unprecedented crisis, the health and safety of our team members have remained our top priority. We instituted a travel ban for all team members in early March and on March 25, 2020, we issued a press release providing a business update regarding COVID-19, including that we were temporarily suspending production at select manufacturing facilities across North America and Europe. The temporary suspension of production was made on a plant-by-plant basis, consistent with government mandates or due to customer closures. Production at facilities considered essential continued, utilizing reduced staff in conjunction with heightened cleaning and sanitation processes. Team members that do not need to be physically present on the manufacturing floor to perform their work were required to work from home. We implemented a number of actions to ensure adherence to guidelines set forth by the World Health Organization and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. We enacted rigorous health and safety protocols as we resumed production in early May. For example, we implemented health screenings of team members for potential symptoms, conducted extensive and frequent disinfecting of workspaces, implemented social distancing restrictions for production personnel, provided masks to team members who must be physically present, and set up temporary COVID-19 testing sites for team members with symptoms or potential exposure. We also leased a location to provide drive-thru rapid COVID-19 tests for our team members in northern Indiana and continued to provide full compensation to team members required to quarantine due to a positive test or contact tracing. These health and safety protocols remain in effect currently. Operations As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, governmental authorities implemented and are continuing to implement numerous and constantly evolving measures in attempts to contain the virus, such as travel bans and restrictions, limits on gatherings, face mask requirements, quarantines, shelter-in-place orders, and business shutdowns. We temporarily suspended production at certain facilities, starting with locations in Italy and other parts of Europe. Certain of our North American operations, which were considered non-essential, were temporarily suspended starting the last week of March 2020, negatively impacting our results of operations for the first quarter of 2020, especially in the OEM Segment. These temporary production 26 shutdowns continued through April, and most of our facilities reopened in early May. By later in the second quarter, all of our facilities were fully operational, and continued to be fully operational through the end of 2020. As a result, the shutdowns negatively impacted our results of operations beginning in March through the first half of the second quarter of 2020. We instituted several cost saving and cash preservation measures starting in late March and continuing into the second quarter of 2020 in an effort to conserve liquidity and mitigate the impact of lost revenue from suspended operations. The following list includes many, but not all, of the cost savings and cash preservation measures employed: • temporary layoffs of production employees at suspended facilities; • salary reductions for the executive leadership team; • reduction of the quarterly retainer for the Board of Directors; • elimination of discretionary spending; • delay of non-essential capital expenditures; • deferral of lease payments to lessors; • temporary hiring freezes and furloughs of non-critical team members; and • postponing merit increases for salaried employees until the end of the fiscal year. As we returned to fully operational status later in the second quarter, several of the cost savings and cash preservation measures listed above were reversed, including executive salary and director retainer reductions, furloughs, and hiring freezes. Due to the uncertainty surrounding the COVID-19 pandemic, we remain disciplined with other cost savings and cash preservation measures, such as reducing or eliminating non-critical business expenses including travel. Most of the OEM customers we supply in North America resumed operations in early May 2020 at reduced capacity to fulfill retail dealer backlog orders. We resumed operations to varying degrees for the majority of our facilities on May 4, 2020 to meet the demand requirements of our customers, and by later in the second quarter, all of our facilities were fully operational. Retail demand, especially in the RV and marine markets, picked up significantly later in the second quarter, leading to a record month of June for net sales for the Company with fully operational facilities. Retail demand continued at elevated levels through the second half of 2020 with our net sales remaining at record levels on a monthly basis. While production at our facilities continued through the end of 2020, the operational status of our facilities is subject to change as the ultimate duration, including new or continued surges, and impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our and our customers' operations is presently unclear. Customers and Demand Prior to the COVID-19 impact beginning in mid-March, the RV industry experienced a return to positive retail sales growth starting in January 2020. This growth concluded 16 months of consecutive year-over-year declines, and provided an indication that the inventory re-balancing the industry had been addressing had reached its conclusion. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and many government mandated stay-at-home orders and campground closures, retail sales abruptly declined beginning in mid-March. Despite the abrupt decline in retail sales to our OEM channels, many aftermarket channels remained open through the period as dealerships remained open to service customers' products. We stayed in close communication with our OEM customers in regards to their plans to resume operations and we ramped up production quickly to meet our customers' demand when facilities reopened in early May. As noted above, beginning later in the second quarter, retail demand in the North American RV and marine markets increased significantly resulting in the highest monthly total net sales in our history for each respective month from June through December 2020. The sharp rebound in sales following the shutdowns also resulted in a significant increase in accounts receivable. We continue to closely monitor cash collections of our trade receivables, and to date have not identified any significant collection concerns with our customers. We experienced a positive impact following the initial shutdown from the COVID-19 pandemic, as interest rates and fuel prices remain at historic lows, both of which are favorable for the industries we serve, and we believe retail consumers are looking for vacation options that avoid large gatherings and allow for social distancing. The end products for many of the markets we supply, such as RVs and boats, can provide safer alternatives for vacations and recreation as opposed to air travel, visiting large cities, theme parks, and cruises. However, given the significant negative effects and uncertainties associated with the COVID-19 pandemic, other impacts, such as long-term U.S. and global economic disruptions, may ultimately be counter to, and outweigh, any positive vacation and recreation factors. 27 Suppliers Certain of our suppliers have or are expected to face difficulties maintaining operations due to government-ordered restrictions, future outbreaks, and shelter-in-place mandates. Although we regularly monitor the financial health of companies in our supply chain, financial hardship on our suppliers caused by the COVID-19 pandemic could cause a disruption in our ability to obtain raw materials or components required to manufacture our products, adversely affecting operations. To mitigate the risk of any potential supply chain interruptions from the COVID-19 pandemic, we increased certain inventory levels during the first quarter of 2020, which continued through the end of 2020 and is expected to continue into the foreseeable future. Additionally, restrictions or disruptions of transportation, such as reduced availability of air transport, port closures, and increased border controls or closures, could result in higher costs or delays, which could harm our profitability, make our products less competitive, or cause our customers to seek alternative suppliers. Liquidity In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we borrowed a series of draws under our revolving credit facility to increase our cash position and improve financial flexibility in March and April 2020. During the second quarter, we also engaged with banking partners regarding options relative to future liquidity. We made net repayments on our revolving credit facility of approximately $181 million from May through October 31, 2020 (prior to net borrowings in November and December primarily to fund acquisitions) as production resumed and operating cash flow improved with the increase in retail demand. We also ceased our discussions with banking partners about additional or alternative financing options. See "Liquidity and Capital Resources - Credit Facilities" section below for further discussion on liquidity. INDUSTRY BACKGROUND OEM Segment North American Recreational Vehicle Industry An RV is a vehicle designed as temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use. RVs may be motorized (motorhomes) or towable (travel trailers, fifth-wheel travel trailers, folding camping trailers, and truck campers). The annual sales cycle for the RV industry generally starts in October after the “Open House” in Elkhart, Indiana where many of the largest RV OEMs display product to RV retail dealers and ends after the conclusion of the summer selling season in September in the following calendar year. Between October and March, industry-wide wholesale shipments of travel trailer and fifth-wheel RVs have historically exceeded retail sales as dealers build inventories to support anticipated sales. Between April and September, the spring and summer selling seasons, retail sales of travel trailer and fifth-wheel RVs have historically exceeded industry-wide wholesale shipments. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the 2020 Open House was canceled. The seasonality of the RV industry has been, and will likely continue to be, impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, and the timing of a return to historical seasonality is not possible to predict at this time. According to the RVIA, industry-wide wholesale shipments from the United States of travel trailer and fifth-wheel RVs in 2020, the Company’s primary RV market, increased 9 percent to 380,100 units, compared to 2019. The increase was a result of an estimated 51,900 units, or 13 percent, increase in retail sales in 2020, as compared to 2019, partially offset from OEM plant shutdowns in response to COVID-19 in early 2020. Retail demand is typically revised upward in subsequent months, primarily due to delayed RV registrations. While we measure our OEM Segment RV sales against industry-wide wholesale shipment statistics, the underlying health of the RV industry is determined by retail demand. A comparison of the number of units and the year-over-year percentage change in industry-wide wholesale shipments and retail sales of travel trailers and fifth-wheel RVs, as reported by Statistical Surveys, Inc., as well as the resulting estimated change in dealer inventories, for both the United States and Canada, is as follows: 28 According to the RVIA, industry-wide wholesale shipments of motorhome RVs in 2020 decreased 13 percent to 40,700 units compared to 2019, primarily due to OEM plant shutdowns in response to COVID-19. Retail demand for motorhome RVs also decreased 4 percent in 2020, following a 12 percent decrease in retail demand in 2019. The RVIA has projected an 18 percent increase in industry-wide wholesale shipments of RVs to 507,200 units for 2021. Several RV OEMs are introducing new product lines and additional features, and adding production capacity throughout the upcoming year. Retail sales of RVs historically have been closely tied to general economic conditions, as well as consumer confidence, which dropped precipitously in response to the COVID-19 pandemic in the first half of 2020, but recovered partially in the second half of 2020. Adjacent Industries Our portfolio of products used in RVs can also be used in other applications, including buses; trailers used to haul boats, livestock, equipment and other cargo; trucks; boats; trains; manufactured homes; and modular housing (collectively, “Adjacent Industries”). In many cases, OEM customers of the Adjacent Industries are affiliated with RV OEMs through related subsidiaries. We believe there are significant opportunities in these Adjacent Industries and, as a result, six of the ten business acquisitions we completed in 2020 and 2019 were focused in Adjacent Industries. The estimated potential content per unit we may supply to the Adjacent Industries varies by OEM product and differs from RVs. As a means to understand the potential of each of these markets, management reviews the number of retail units sold. The following are key target markets for Adjacent Industries component sales: • Enclosed trailers. According to Statistical Surveys, approximately 224,700, 218,800, and 219,800 enclosed trailers were sold in 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively. • Traditional power boats. Statistical Surveys also reported approximately 225,900, 202,600, and 210,700 traditional power boats were sold in 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively. Traditional power boats include bass, deck, jet, pontoon, ski-wake, and other boats. Included in this total, Statistical Surveys reported approximately 68,400, 55,000, and 56,200 pontoon boats were sold in 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively. • School buses. According to School Bus Fleet, there were approximately 36,000, 44,400, and 44,400 school buses sold in 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively. • Manufactured housing. According to the Institute for Building Technology and Safety, there were approximately 94,400, 94,600, and 96,600 manufactured home wholesale shipments in 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively. Aftermarket Segment Many of our OEM Segment products are also sold through various aftermarket channels, including dealerships, wholesale distributors, and service centers, as well as direct to retail customers through e-commerce. This includes discretionary accessories and replacement service parts. We have teams dedicated to product, technical, and installation training as well as marketing support for our Aftermarket Segment customers. We also support multiple call centers to provide responses to customers for both product delivery and technical support. This support is designed for a rapid response to minimize customer downtime for critical repairs. The Aftermarket Segment also includes the sale of replacement glass and awnings to fulfill insurance claims, biminis, covers, buoys, and fenders to the marine industry, and towing products and truck accessories. Many of the optional upgrades and non-critical replacements for RVs are purchased outside the normal product selling seasons, thereby causing certain Aftermarket Segment sales to be counter-seasonal, but were different in 2020 and may be different in future years as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and related impacts. According to the RVIA, estimated RV ownership in the United States is estimated to be over nine million households. Additionally, as a result of a vibrant secondary market, one-third of current owners purchased their RV new while the remaining two-thirds purchased a previously owned RV. This vibrant secondary market is a key driver for aftermarket sales, as we anticipate owners of previously owned RVs will likely upgrade their units as well as replace parts and accessories which have been subjected to normal wear and tear. In December 2019, we acquired CURT, a leading manufacturer and distributor of branded towing products and truck accessories for the aftermarket. Our CURT products are sold to the automotive and truck aftermarket, as well as the RV, marine, and trailer markets, all of which require towing products, which we believe compliments the OEM markets we serve. Sales from CURT accounted for approximately half of our Aftermarket Segment net sales in 2020. In 2020, CURT sold 1.2 million hitches compared to 950 thousand sold in 2019. Additionally, the quantity of CURT products ordered via e-commerce increased 75 percent year-over-year in 2020. 29 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Year Ended December 31, 2020 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2019 Consolidated Summary • Consolidated net sales for the full-year 2020 were $2.8 billion, 18 percent higher than consolidated net sales for the full-year 2019 of $2.4 billion. The increase in year-over-year net sales was primarily driven by the impact of net sales from acquired businesses of $374.7 million primarily from the CURT and Polyplastic acquisitions, organic growth in the Aftermarket Segment, and record monthly RV retail demand following COVID-19 shutdowns in the first half of the year. • Net income for the full-year 2020 was $158.4 million, or $6.27 per diluted share, compared to net income of $146.5 million, or $5.84 per diluted share, for full-year 2019. • Consolidated operating profit during 2020 was $222.9 million compared to $200.2 million in 2019. Operating profit margin was 8.0 percent in 2020 compared to 8.4 percent in 2019, with the contraction primarily due to COVID-19-related shutdowns from late March through early May of 2020. • The cost of aluminum and steel used in certain of the Company’s manufactured components decreased in 2020 compared to 2019. Raw material costs are subject to continued fluctuation and are being offset, in part, by contractual selling prices that are indexed to select commodities. Raw material costs were trending higher at the end of 2020 and are expected to remain volatile. • The increase in selling, general, and administrative costs of $144.2 million was driven by incremental costs from recent acquisitions of $125.2 million, including warehousing and distribution costs of $44.7 million associated with CURT, and incremental amortization on intangible assets from acquired businesses of $14.2 million in 2020 compared to 2019. • The effective tax rate of 24.4 percent for the full-year 2020 was higher than the prior year, primarily due to an increase in non-deductible expenses, as discussed below under “Provision for Income Taxes.” • In 2020, we paid quarterly dividends aggregating $2.80 per share, or $70.4 million. OEM Segment Net sales of the OEM Segment in 2020 increased 4 percent, or $76.0 million, compared to 2019. Net sales of components to OEMs were to the following markets for the years ended December 31: According to the RVIA, industry-wide wholesale shipments for the years ended December 31 were: Our calculations of content in the OEM Segment discussion that follows were adjusted to remove Furrion sales from all prior periods to enhance comparability between periods following the termination of the agreement at the end of 2019. Refer to Item 2 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2020 for historical Furrion sales. The trend in our average product content per RV produced is an indicator of our overall market share of components for new RVs. Our average product content per type of RV, calculated based upon our net sales of components to domestic RV OEMs for the different types of RVs produced for the twelve months ended December 31, divided by the industry-wide wholesale shipments of the different product mix of RVs for the same period, was: 30 Our average product content per type of RV excludes international sales and sales to the Aftermarket Segment and Adjacent Industries. Content per RV is impacted by market share gains, acquisitions, new product introductions, changes in selling prices for our products, OEM inventories, and changes in the types of RVs produced industry-wide. The increase in net sales to RV OEMs of travel trailers, fifth-wheel, and motorhome components during 2020 of $47.3 million was primarily driven by organic growth, including new product introductions and industry and market share gains of $180.5 million, partially offset by the termination of the Furrion supply agreement of $98.6 million, and the increased demand for entry-level products of $12.7 million, which traditionally have less content per unit. In addition, price reductions passed to our customers during the twelve months ended December 31, 2020 of $21.9 million, primarily due to commodity indexed pricing, and changes in OEM inventory levels have negatively impacted content growth. Our net sales to Adjacent Industries OEMs increased during 2020, primarily due to acquisitions completed in 2020 and 2019 as well as market share gains. Domestic and international OEM marine net sales totaled $205.8 million in 2020, an increase of $10.0 million compared to 2019, primarily due to acquisitions completed in 2020 and 2019. We continue to believe there are significant opportunities in Adjacent Industries. Operating profit of the OEM Segment was $156.1 million in 2020, a decrease of $9.2 million compared to 2019. The operating profit margin of the OEM Segment decreased to 7.2 percent in 2020 compared to 7.9 percent in 2019 and was negatively impacted by: • The impact of COVID-19 as OEMs suspended production beginning in March 2020 due to government mandates and a temporary reduction in customer demand during the COVID-19 pandemic, which dramatically reduced sales while still incurring certain employee salaries and wages, healthcare and safety expenses, and other fixed costs. • Selling price changes from contractual reductions indexed to select commodities of $26.5 million, which generally lag actual commodity price changes by six to nine months. • Additional amortization related to intangible assets from acquisitions completed in 2020 and 2019, which reduced operating profit by $6.9 million. Partially offset by: • Reductions in material commodity pricing of $16.6 million, primarily related to decreased steel and aluminum costs. Aftermarket Segment Net sales of the Aftermarket Segment in 2020 increased 125 percent, or $348.7 million, compared to 2019. Net sales of components in the Aftermarket Segment were as follows for the years ended December 31: Our net sales to the Aftermarket Segment increased during 2020 primarily due to net sales from acquisitions completed in 2020 and 2019, which contributed approximately $269.6 million, and organic growth of $79.1 million. Operating profit of the Aftermarket Segment was $66.8 million in 2020, an increase of $31.9 million compared to 2019, primarily from acquisitions completed in 2020 and 2019, partially offset by the impact of COVID-19. The operating profit margin of the Aftermarket Segment was 10.6 percent in 2020, compared to 12.5 percent in 2019, and was negatively impacted by: • Additional amortization and depreciation related to long-lived assets from the CURT and Lewmar acquisitions, which reduced operating profit by $8.9 million. • The recognition of higher cost of sales due to the inventory fair value step-up for CURT determined as part of the purchase accounting of $7.3 million. • Sales mix of lower margin CURT and Lewmar products, which negatively impacted operating profit by $6.7 million. 31 Partially offset by: • The benefit of organic sales growth coupled with the termination of the low-margin Furrion supply agreement, which increased operating profit by $8.9 million. Provision for Income Taxes The effective income tax rate for 2020 was 24.4 percent compared to 23.5 percent in 2019. The effective tax rate of 24.4 percent for the full-year 2020 was higher than the prior year, primarily due to a year-over-year increase in non-deductible items related to executive compensation limitations. We estimate the 2021 effective income tax rate to be approximately 24 to 26 percent. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Cash Flows We maintain a level of liquidity sufficient to allow us to meet our cash needs in the short term. Over the long term, we manage our cash and capital structure to maximize shareholder return, maintain our financial condition, and maintain flexibility for our future strategic investments. We continuously assess our capital requirements, working capital needs, debt and leverage levels, debt and lease maturity schedules, capital expenditure requirements, dividends, future investments or acquisitions, and potential share repurchases. We believe our operating cash flows, credit facilities, as well as any potential future borrowings, will be sufficient to fund our future payments and long-term initiatives. As of December 31, 2020, we had $51.8 million in cash and cash equivalents, and $202.2 million of availability on our revolving credit facility. Additionally, we have the ability to request up to $150.0 million in additional Senior Promissory Notes be purchased by Prudential under our Shelf-Loan Facility (each as defined in Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), subject to Prudential's approval. See Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of our credit facilities. We believe the availability under the revolving credit facility under the Amended Credit Agreement (as defined in Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), along with our cash flows from operations, are adequate to finance our anticipated cash requirements for the next twelve months. The Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows reflect the following for the years ended December 31: Discussion - Year Ended December 31, 2020 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2019 Cash Flows from Operations Net cash flows provided by operating activities were $231.4 million in 2020, compared to $269.5 million in 2019. Changes in net assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions of businesses, in 2020 generated $74.0 million less cash than in 2019. This was partially offset by a $35.8 million increase in net income, adjusted for depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense, deferred taxes, and other non-cash items. Inventory growth was the primary use of cash in net assets due to increased retail demand and rising material costs late in 2020. Over the long term, based on our historical collection and payment patterns, as well as inventory turnover, and also giving consideration to emerging trends and changes to the sales mix, we expect working capital to increase or decrease equivalent to approximately 10 to 15 percent of the increase or decrease, respectively, in net sales. However, there are many factors that can impact this relationship, especially in the short term. 32 Depreciation and amortization was $98.0 million and $75.4 million in 2020 and 2019, respectively, and is expected to be approximately $110 to $120 million in 2021. Non-cash stock-based compensation was $18.5 million and $16.1 million in 2020 and 2019, respectively, and is expected to be approximately $20 to $30 million in 2021. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows used in investing activities of $232.3 million in 2020 were primarily comprised of $182.1 million for the acquisition of businesses and $57.3 million for capital expenditures. Cash flows used in investing activities of $503.8 million in 2019 were primarily comprised of $447.8 million for the acquisition of businesses and $58.2 million for capital expenditures. Our capital expenditures are primarily for replacement and growth. Over the long term, based on our historical capital expenditures, the replacement portion has averaged approximately one to two percent of net sales, while the growth portion has averaged approximately two to three percent of net sales. However, there are many factors that can impact the actual spending compared to these historical averages. We estimate 2021 capital expenditures of $130 to $150 million, including capacity expansions to meet elevated demand, which we expect to fund with cash flows from operations or periodic borrowings under the revolving credit facility as needed. The 2020 capital expenditures and acquisitions were funded by cash from operations and borrowings under our credit agreement. Capital expenditures and acquisitions in 2021 are expected to be funded primarily from cash generated from operations, as well as periodic borrowings under our revolving credit facility. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows provided by financing activities in 2020 primarily included net borrowings on the revolving credit facility of $113.6 million, partially offset by the payment of dividends to stockholders of $70.4 million, and repayments under our term loan and other borrowings of $22.4 million. Cash flows provided by financing activities in 2019 primarily included term loan borrowings of $300.0 million, net borrowings on the revolving credit facility of $26.5 million, partially offset by the payment of dividends to stockholders of $63.8 million, and $8.1 million from the vesting of stock-based awards, net of shares tendered for the payment of taxes. The Amended Credit Agreement and Shelf-Loan Facility include both financial and non-financial covenants. The covenants dictate that we shall not permit our net leverage ratio to exceed certain limits, shall maintain a minimum debt service coverage ratio, and must meet certain other financial requirements. At December 31, 2020, we were in compliance with all such requirements, and we expect to remain in compliance for the next twelve months. We have paid regular quarterly dividends since 2016. Future dividend policy with respect to our common stock will be determined by our Board of Directors in light of our prevailing financial needs, earnings, and other relevant factors, including any limitations in our debt agreements, such as maintenance of certain financial ratios. In October 2018, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program. No shares were repurchased during the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019. See Note 12 of the Notes Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to our dividend and share repurchase programs. Future Cash Requirements The following table summarizes our material estimated future cash requirements under our contractual obligations for indebtedness and operating leases at December 31, 2020, in total and disaggregated into current (payable in 2021) and long-term (payable after 2021) obligations. a. See Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the maturities of debt principal. Interest payments on our indebtedness are calculated using the outstanding balances and interest rates in effect on December 31, 2020. b. See Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the maturity of our lease obligations under operating leases. Our finance leases were not material at December 31, 2020. 33 Retirement and Other Benefit Plans We consider various factors when making funding decisions, such as regulatory requirements, actuarially determined minimum contribution requirements and contributions required to avoid benefit restrictions for defined benefit pension plans. For the year ended December 31, 2020, we contributed $1.2 million to our Dutch pension plans assumed with the acquisition of Polyplastic, and made discretionary matching contributions of $9.0 million to our defined contribution 401(k) profit sharing plan. We anticipate making minimum required contributions of $1.3 million to our Dutch pension plans in 2021. We also expect to make matching contributions to our defined contribution 401(k) profit sharing plan in 2021 at a level similar to 2020; however, these contributions are discretionary and subject to change. See Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information related to our retirement and other benefit plans. Holdback Payments and Contingent Consideration With certain business acquisitions, we hold back purchase consideration for the purposes of working capital adjustments, indemnity claims, and other items, as defined in each respective purchase agreement. At December 31, 2020, we had current holdback payments accrued of $17.4 million and long-term holdback payments accrued of $2.8 million related to certain acquisitions completed in 2020 and 2019. The ultimate cash settlement amounts of these holdback accruals are subject to change based on various factors defined in the respective purchase agreements. In connection with certain business acquisitions, we agree that if certain sales targets for the acquired products are achieved, we will pay additional cash consideration. We record a liability for the fair value of this contingent consideration based on the present value of the expected future cash flows using a market participant's weighted average cost of capital. At December 31, 2020, we had current contingent consideration accrued of $2.7 million and long-term contingent consideration accrued of $1.9 million. The ultimate cash settlement amounts of these contingent consideration arrangements are subject to change based on the level of attainment of the performance targets in the respective agreements. See Note 3 and Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information related to these holdback payments and contingent consideration. Deferred Social Security Payments Under the CARES Act In 2020, we elected to defer employer-side Social Security payments under provisions of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (the "CARES Act"). We deferred $18 million of payments in 2020 under the CARES Act, and will pay $9 million of deferred Social Security taxes in each of 2021 and 2022. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE We are in compliance with the corporate governance requirements of the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange. Our governance documents and committee charters and key practices have been posted to our website ( www.lci1.com ) and are updated periodically. The website also contains, or provides direct links to, all SEC filings, press releases and investor presentations. We have also established a Whistleblower Policy, which includes a toll-free hotline (877-373-9123) to report complaints about the Company’s accounting, internal controls, auditing matters or other concerns. The Whistleblower Policy and procedure for complaints can be found on our website ( www.lci1.com ). CONTINGENCIES Additional information required by this item is included under Item 3 of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Our Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, which requires certain estimates and assumptions to be made that affect the amounts and disclosures reported in those financial statements and the related accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from these estimates and assumptions. The following critical accounting policies, some of which are impacted significantly by judgments, assumptions and estimates, affect the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements. Management has discussed the development and selection of its critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors and the Audit Committee has reviewed the disclosure presented below relating to the critical accounting estimates. 34 Warranty We provide warranty terms based upon the type of product sold. We estimate the warranty accrual based upon various factors, including historical warranty costs, warranty claim lag, current trends, product mix, and sales. The accounting for warranty accruals requires us to make assumptions and judgments, and to the extent actual results differ from original estimates, adjustments to recorded accruals may be required. In 2020, we experienced favorable trends as year-over-year claim payments declined despite continued growth in net sales. We believe the favorable trend is the result of concentrated efforts related to product quality and customer service. For further information on our warranty accrual, including a roll-forward of changes in the accrual, see Note 6 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Fair Value of Intangible Assets of Acquired Businesses We value the intangible assets associated with the acquisitions of businesses on the respective acquisition dates. Depending upon the type of intangible asset acquired, we use different valuation techniques in determining the fair value. Those techniques include comparable market prices, long-term sales, profitability and cash flow forecasts, assumptions regarding future industry-specific economic and market conditions and a market participant’s weighted average cost of capital, as well as other techniques as circumstances require. By their nature, these assumptions require judgment, and if management had chosen different assumptions, the fair value of intangible assets of acquired businesses would have been different. For further information on acquired intangible assets, see Notes 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. New Accounting Pronouncements Information required by this item is included in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. INFLATION The prices of key raw materials, consisting primarily of steel and aluminum, and components used by us which are made from these raw materials, are influenced by demand and other factors specific to these commodities, rather than being directly affected by inflationary pressures. Prices of these commodities have historically been volatile, and over the past few months prices have continued to fluctuate. We did not experience any significant increases in our labor costs in 2020 related to inflation. Item 7A.