 Item 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. This Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in Item 8 of this Report. The Company, through its wholly-owned subsidiary, LCI, supplies, domestically and internationally, a broad array of engineered components for the leading OEMs in the recreation and transportation product markets, consisting of RVs and adjacent industries including buses; trailers used to haul boats, livestock, equipment and other cargo; trucks; boats; trains; manufactured homes; and modular housing. The Company also supplies engineered components to the related aftermarkets of these industries, primarily by selling to retail dealers, wholesale distributors, and service centers. The Company has two reportable segments, the OEM Segment and the Aftermarket Segment. At December 31, 2019, the Company operated over 90 manufacturing and distribution facilities located throughout North America and Europe. 25 Net sales and operating profit were as follows for the years ended December 31: Corporate expenses are allocated between the segments based upon net sales. Accretion related to contingent consideration is included in the segment to which it relates. Net sales and operating profit by segment, as a percent of the total, were as follows for the years ended December 31: Operating profit margin by segment was as follows for the years ended December 31: The Company’s OEM Segment manufactures and distributes a broad array of engineered components for the leading OEMs of RVs and adjacent industries, including buses; trailers used to haul boats, livestock, equipment and other cargo; trucks; boats; trains; manufactured homes; and modular housing. Approximately 61 percent of the Company’s OEM Segment net sales for the year ended December 31, 2019 were of components for travel trailer and fifth-wheel RVs, including: ● Steel chassis and related components ● Entry, luggage, patio and ramp doors ● Axles and suspension solutions ● Furniture and mattresses ● Slide-out mechanisms and solutions ● Electric and manual entry steps ● Thermoformed bath, kitchen and other products ● Awnings and awning accessories ● Vinyl, aluminum and frameless windows ● Electronic components ● Manual, electric and hydraulic stabilizer and leveling systems ● Other accessories The Aftermarket Segment supplies many of these components to the related aftermarket channels of the RV and adjacent industries, primarily to retail dealers, wholesale distributors, and service centers. The Aftermarket Segment also 26 includes the sale of replacement glass and awnings to fulfill insurance claims, biminis, covers, buoys, and fenders to the marine industry, and towing products and truck accessories. Diversification Strategy The Company is executing a strategic initiative to diversify the markets it serves away from the historical concentration within the North American RV industry. The Company's goal is to have 60 percent of net sales be generated outside of the North American RV industry by the year 2022. Approximately 42 percent of net sales for the year ended December 31, 2019 were generated outside of the North American RV market. INDUSTRY BACKGROUND OEM Segment North American Recreational Vehicle Industry An RV is a vehicle designed as temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use. RVs may be motorized (motorhomes) or towable (travel trailers, fifth-wheel travel trailers, folding camping trailers and truck campers). The annual sales cycle for the RV industry generally starts in October after the “Open House” in Elkhart, Indiana where many of the largest RV OEMs display product to RV retail dealers and ends after the conclusion of the summer selling season in September in the following calendar year. Between October and March, industry-wide wholesale shipments of travel trailer and fifth-wheel RVs have historically exceeded retail sales as dealers build inventories to support anticipated sales. Between April and September, the spring and summer selling seasons, retail sales of travel trailer and fifth-wheel RVs have historically exceeded industry-wide wholesale shipments. Although 2019 saw a disruption of wholesale shipments as dealers attempted to normalize their inventory levels, the Company expects wholesale and retail volumes to more closely align in 2020. According to the RVIA, industry-wide wholesale shipments from the United States of travel trailer and fifth-wheel RVs in 2019, the Company’s primary RV market, decreased 16 percent to 349,500 units, compared to 2018. The decrease was a result of an estimated 28,800 units, or seven percent, decrease in retail sales in 2019, as compared to 2018, and an effort to normalize retail inventories as evidenced by RV dealers decreasing inventory levels by an estimated 45,100 units for 2019, compared to a decrease in inventory levels of 8,300 units in 2018. Retail demand is typically revised upward in subsequent months, primarily due to delayed RV registrations. While the Company measures its OEM Segment RV sales against industry-wide wholesale shipment statistics, the underlying health of the RV industry is determined by retail demand. A comparison of the number of units and the year-over-year percentage change in industry-wide wholesale shipments and retail sales of travel trailers and fifth-wheel RVs, as reported by Statistical Surveys, Inc., as well as the resulting estimated change in dealer inventories, for both the United States and Canada, is as follows: According to the RVIA, industry-wide wholesale shipments of motorhome RVs in 2019 decreased 19 percent to 46,700 units compared to 2018. Retail demand for motorhome RVs also decreased 13 percent in 2019, following a one percent decrease in retail demand in 2018. The RVIA has projected a modest decrease in industry-wide wholesale shipments of travel trailer and fifth-wheel RVs for 2020. Several RV OEMs, however, are introducing new product lines and additional features. Retail sales of RVs historically have been closely tied to general economic conditions, as well as consumer confidence, which was above historical averages in 2019. Industry resources report strong attendance and high consumer interest at RV shows around the United States and Canada in 2020, thus far. 27 Adjacent Industries The Company’s portfolio of products used in RVs can also be used in other applications, including buses; trailers used to haul boats, livestock, equipment and other cargo; trucks; boats; trains; manufactured homes; and modular housing (collectively, “Adjacent Industries”). In many cases, OEM customers of the Adjacent Industries are affiliated with RV OEMs through related subsidiaries. The Company believes there are significant opportunities in these Adjacent Industries and, as a result, five of the seven 2019 business acquisitions completed by the Company were focused in Adjacent Industries. The estimated potential content per unit the Company may supply to the Adjacent Industries varies by OEM product and differs from RVs. As a means to understand the potential of each of these markets, management reviews the number of retail units sold. The following are key target markets for Adjacent Industries component sales: • Enclosed trailers. According to Statistical Surveys, approximately 208,400, 217,500, and 210,200 enclosed trailers were sold in 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively. • Traditional power boats. Statistical Surveys also reported approximately 282,500, 210,500, and 203,200 traditional power boats were sold in 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively. Traditional power boats include bass, deck, jet, pontoon, ski-wake, and other boats. Included in this total, Statistical Surveys reported approximately 57,100, 58,600, and 55,000 pontoon boats were sold in 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively. • School buses. According to School Bus Fleet, there were approximately 44,400 school buses sold in each of 2019, 2018, and 2017. • Manufactured housing. According to the Institute for Building Technology and Safety, there were approximately 94,600, 96,600, and 92,900 manufactured home wholesale shipments in 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively. Aftermarket Segment Many of the Company’s OEM Segment products are also sold through various aftermarket channels, including dealerships, wholesale distributors, and service centers, as well as direct to retail customers via the Internet. This includes discretionary accessories and replacement service parts. The Company has teams dedicated to product technical and installation training as well as marketing support for its Aftermarket Segment customers. The Company also supports multiple call centers to provide responses to customers for both product delivery and technical support. This support is designed for a rapid response to critical repairs, so customer downtime is minimized. The Aftermarket Segment also includes the sale of replacement glass and awnings to fulfill insurance claims, biminis, covers, buoys, and fenders to the marine industry, and towing products and truck accessories. Many of the optional upgrades and non-critical replacements for RVs are purchased outside the normal product selling seasons, thereby causing certain Aftermarket Segment sales to be counter-seasonal. According to the RVIA, estimated RV ownership in the United States has increased to over nine million units. Additionally, as a result of a vibrant secondary market, one-third of current owners purchased their RV new while the remaining two-thirds purchased a previously owned RV. This vibrant secondary market is a key driver for aftermarket sales, as the Company anticipates owners of previously owned RVs will likely upgrade their units as well as replace parts and accessories which have been subjected to normal wear and tear. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Year Ended December 31, 2019 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2018 Consolidated Highlights • Consolidated net sales for the full-year 2019 were $2.4 billion, four percent lower than consolidated net sales for the full-year 2018 of $2.5 billion. The decrease in year-over-year net sales reflects a continuation of lower RV wholesale shipments seen throughout the year as dealers continued to correct their inventory levels, partially offset by continued growth in the Company's adjacent industries OEM, aftermarket and international markets. Net sales from acquisitions completed by the Company contributed $93.0 million in 2019. • Net income for the full-year 2019 decreased to $146.5 million, down from net income of $148.6 million in 2018, while earnings per share increased to $5.84 per diluted share for 2019 compared to $5.83 per diluted share in 2018. Net income for 2018 included one-time non-cash charges of $0.6 million ($0.03 per diluted share), related to the impact of the TCJA. Excluding the estimated impact of the TCJA, adjusted net income was $149.2 million, or $5.86 per diluted share, in 2018. Adjusted net income and adjusted net income per diluted share are non-GAAP 28 financial measures. See “Non-GAAP Measures” for additional information regarding the Company’s use of non-GAAP financial measures and a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. • Consolidated operating profit during 2019 increased one percent, to $200.2 million from $198.8 million in 2018. Operating profit margin increased to 8.4 percent in 2019 from 8.0 percent in 2018. • The cost of aluminum and steel used in certain of the Company’s manufactured components continued to decrease in 2019 from peak costs during the second and third quarter of 2018 and have favorably impacted margins while being offset, in part, by contractual reductions in customer selling prices that are indexed to select commodities. Raw material costs continue to fluctuate and are expected to remain volatile. • Labor costs were favorable in 2019 as the Company seeks to continuously manage its labor cost while supporting the operations of the business. Lean manufacturing teams continue working to reduce cost and implement processes to better utilize manufacturing capacity. The Company has also reduced direct labor attrition, which improves efficiency and reduces other costs associated with workforce turnover. • The effective tax rate of 23.5 percent for the full-year 2019 was higher than the prior year, primarily due to a year-over-year reduction in the excess tax benefits related to the vesting of equity-based compensation awards, as discussed below under “Provision for Income Taxes.” • In 2019, the Company paid quarterly dividends aggregating $2.55 per share, or $63.8 million. OEM Segment Net sales of the OEM Segment in 2019 decreased 7 percent, or $150.7 million, compared to 2018. Net sales of components to OEMs were to the following markets for the years ended December 31: According to the RVIA, industry-wide wholesale shipments for the years ended December 31, were: The trend in the Company’s average product content per RV produced is an indicator of the Company’s overall market share of components for new RVs. The Company’s average product content per type of RV, calculated based upon the Company’s net sales of components to domestic RV OEMs for the different types of RVs produced for the twelve months ended December 31, divided by the industry-wide wholesale shipments of the different product mix of RVs for the same period, was: The Company’s average product content per type of RV excludes international sales and sales to the Aftermarket Segment and Adjacent Industries. Content per RV is impacted by market share gains, acquisitions, new product introductions, and changes in selling prices for the Company’s products, as well as changes in the types of RVs produced industry-wide. The Company’s decrease in net sales to RV OEMs of travel trailers, fifth-wheel, and motorhome components during 2019 related to declines in industry-wide wholesale unit shipments. The net sales decrease was partially offset by pricing changes of targeted products and content gains in travel trailers and fifth-wheels during 2019. Motorized content was impacted by a continued market shift to smaller units in 2019. The Company’s net sales to Adjacent Industries OEMs increased during 2019, primarily due to acquisitions completed in 2019 and market share gains. OEM marine net sales were $167.5 million in 2019, an increase of $13.4 million compared to 2018, primarily due to acquisitions completed in 2019 and 2018. The Company continues to believe there are significant opportunities in Adjacent Industries. 29 Operating profit of the OEM Segment was $165.3 million in 2019, a decrease of $2.2 million compared to 2018. The operating profit margin of the OEM Segment increased to 7.9 percent in 2019 compared to 7.5 percent in 2018 and was positively impacted by: • Pricing changes of targeted products, resulting in an increase to net sales of $40.0 million in 2019 compared to 2018. • Investments over the past several years to improve operating efficiencies, including lean manufacturing initiatives, increased use of automation, and employee retention initiatives, which reduced direct labor costs by $15.0 million during 2019 compared to 2018. • Reductions in insurance related costs of $11.2 million in 2019. Partially offset by: • Fixed costs being spread over an OEM Segment sales base that decreased by $150.7 million. • Increases in incentive compensation of $10.4 million as a result of improved operating margin. • Investments in selling and administration resources of $8.8 million to support the complexities of international growth and acquisition-related costs. • Higher production facility costs due to investments to expand capacity over the past couple of years, which increased expenses by $5.8 million in 2019. Aftermarket Segment Net sales of the Aftermarket Segment in 2019 increased 20 percent, or $46.4 million, compared to 2018. Net sales of components in the Aftermarket Segment were as follows for the years ended December 31: The Company’s net sales to the Aftermarket Segment increased during 2019 primarily due to increases in market share, acquisitions which contributed approximately $20.0 million in sales, and the Company’s focus on building out well qualified, customer-focused teams, and infrastructure to service this market. Operating profit of the Aftermarket Segment was $34.9 million in 2019, an increase of $3.6 million compared to 2018. The operating profit margin of the Aftermarket Segment was 12.5 percent in 2019, compared to 13.4 percent in 2018, and was negatively impacted by: • Increase in sales of lower margin Furrion product which negatively impacted operating profit by $1.8 million. • Higher production facility costs due to investments to expand capacity over the past couple of years, which increased expenses by $1.6 million in 2019. • Acquisition integration costs, which reduced operating profit by $1.0 million. Partially offset by: • Fixed costs being spread over an Aftermarket Segment sales base that increased by $46.4 million. Year Ended December 31, 2018 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2017 Consolidated Highlights • Consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2018 increased to a record $2.5 billion, 15 percent higher than consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2017 of $2.1 billion. The increase in year-over-year sales reflects growth across the Company’s segments, as well as acquisitions completed by the Company over the twelve months ended December 31, 2018 which added $231.4 million in net sales. • Net income for the full-year 2018 increased to $148.6 million, or $5.83 per diluted share, up from net income of $132.9 million, or $5.24 per diluted share, in 2017. Net income for 2018 and 2017 included one-time non-cash charges of $0.6 million ($0.03 per diluted share) and $13.2 million ($0.52 per diluted share), respectively, related to the impact of the TCJA. Excluding the estimated impact of the TCJA, adjusted net income was $149.2 million, or $5.86 per diluted share, in 2018, compared to $146.1 million, or $5.76 per diluted share, in 2017. Adjusted net income and adjusted net income per diluted share are non-GAAP financial measures. See “Non-GAAP Measures” 30 for additional information regarding the Company’s use of non-GAAP financial measures and a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. • Consolidated operating profit during 2018 decreased seven percent, to $198.8 million from $214.3 million in 2017. Operating profit margin decreased to 8.0 percent in 2018 from 10.0 percent in 2017. • The cost of aluminum and steel used in certain of the Company’s manufactured components increased throughout 2018 from lows in 2016 and 2015, having a large impact on operating profits. Raw material costs continue to fluctuate and are expected to remain volatile. • The Company continues to take actions to improve its cost structure. The Company seeks to continuously manage its labor cost, particularly indirect labor, while supporting the growth of the business. Lean manufacturing teams continue working to reduce costs and implement processes to better utilize available floorspace. The Company has also reduced direct labor attrition, which improves efficiency and reduces other costs associated with workforce turnover. • During 2018, the Company completed four acquisitions: • In November 2018, the Company acquired the business and certain assets of the furniture manufacturing operation of Smoker Craft, Inc., a leading pontoon, aluminum fishing, and fiberglass boat manufacturer located in New Paris, Indiana. The purchase price was $28.1 million paid at closing. • In June 2018, the Company acquired 100 percent of the equity interests of ST. LA. S.r.l., a manufacturer of bed lifts and other RV components for the European caravan market, headquartered in Pontedera, Italy. The purchase price was $14.8 million, net of cash acquired, paid at closing. • In February 2018, the Company acquired substantially all of the business assets of Hehr International Inc., a manufacturer of windows and tempered and laminated glass for the RV, transit, specialty vehicle, and other adjacent industries, headquartered in Los Angeles, California. The purchase price was $51.5 million paid at closing. • In January 2018, the Company acquired 100 percent of the equity interests of Taylor Made Group, LLC, a marine supplier to boat builders and the aftermarket, as well as a key supplier to a host of other industrial end markets, headquartered in Gloversville, New York. The purchase price was $90.4 million, net of cash acquired, paid at closing. • Integration activities for these acquired businesses are underway and proceeding in line with established plans. The Company plans to leverage its purchasing power, manufacturing capabilities, engineering expertise and design resources to improve the cost structure of the acquired operations. • In March 2018, the Company paid a quarterly dividend of $0.55 per share, aggregating $13.9 million. In June, September and December 2018, the Company paid a quarterly dividend of $0.60 per share, aggregating $15.1 million, $15.1 million and $15.2 million, respectively. • In 2018, the Company repurchased 0.4 million of its common shares for $28.7 million of the authorized $150.0 million under its new stock repurchase program. OEM Segment Net sales of the OEM Segment in 2018 increased 13 percent, or $266.0 million, compared to 2017. Net sales of components to OEMs were to the following markets for the years ended December 31: According to the RVIA, industry-wide wholesale shipments for the years ended December 31, were: 31 The Company’s net sales growth in components for travel trailer and fifth-wheel RVs during 2018 outperformed industry-wide wholesale shipments of travel trailer and fifth-wheel RVs during the same period primarily due to market share gains as a result of price increases, new product introductions and customer penetration. The Company’s net sales growth in components for motorhomes during 2018 outperformed industry-wide wholesale shipments of motorhomes during the same period primarily due to acquisitions and market share gains in 2018. Over the past few years, the Company has been expanding its product line of components for motorhomes in order to increase its customer base and market penetration. The trend in the Company’s average product content per RV produced is an indicator of the Company’s overall market share of components for new RVs. The Company’s average product content per type of RV, calculated based upon the Company’s net sales of components to RV OEMs for the different types of RVs produced for the years ended December 31, divided by the industry-wide wholesale shipments of the different types of RVs for the same period, was: The Company’s average product content per type of RV excludes international sales and sales to the Aftermarket Segment and Adjacent Industries. Content per RV is impacted by market share gains, acquisitions, new product introductions, and changes in selling prices for the Company’s products, as well as changes in the types of RVs produced industry-wide. The Company’s net OEM sales to Adjacent Industries increased during 2018 primarily due to market share gains and acquisitions completed in 2018. Operating profit of the OEM Segment was $167.5 million in 2018, a decrease of $22.8 million compared to 2017. The operating profit margin of the OEM Segment was negatively impacted by: • Higher material costs for certain raw materials. Steel, aluminum and foam costs continued to increase in 2018 primarily driven by tariffs and tariff speculation on steel and aluminum, which increased material costs by $53.7 million in 2018. Material costs are subject to global supply and demand forces, as well as tariff changes, and are expected to remain volatile. • The Company made significant investments over the past couple of years in manufacturing capacity, in both facilities and personnel, to prepare for the expected increase in net sales in 2018 and beyond. Rent, utilities, and depreciation expense negatively impacted operating profit by $12.7 million in 2018 as a result of expansion of manufacturing capacity. In addition to these investments, the Company has made improvements in marketing, human resources, engineering, customer service and other critical departments. The Company also added the teams from acquired businesses, and expenses were negatively impacted by amortization costs of intangible assets related to those businesses, which were $1.4 million in 2018. • Higher labor costs. While the Company seeks to continuously manage its labor cost, it has added staff to support the growth of the business. Additionally, competition for skilled workers has continued to tighten the labor market which has increased the cost of labor. Overall compensation, including benefits, negatively impacted operating profit by $22.4 million in 2018. Partially offset by: • Pricing changes of certain products, resulting in an increase of $65.7 million in net sales for 2018 compared to 2017. • Increased sales to higher margin Adjacent Industries OEMs of $203.4 million, from $411.2 million in 2017 to $614.6 million in 2018, which improved operating profit by $1.4 million in 2018. • Cost savings related to investments over the past several years to improve operating efficiencies, including lean manufacturing initiatives, increased use of automation and employee retention initiatives. The Company has also reduced direct labor attrition which improves efficiency and reduces other costs associated with workforce turnover. Aftermarket Segment Net sales of the Aftermarket Segment in 2018 increased 36 percent, or $62.0 million, compared to 2017. Net sales of components in the Aftermarket Segment were as follows for the years ended December 31: 32 The Company’s net sales to the Aftermarket Segment increased during 2018 primarily due to acquisitions and the Company’s focus on building out well qualified, customer-focused teams and infrastructure to service this market. Operating profit of the Aftermarket Segment was $31.3 million in 2018, an increase of $7.3 million compared to 2017, primarily due to the increase in net sales. Operating profit margin of the Aftermarket Segment was 13.4 percent in 2018, compared to 14.0 percent in 2017. Provision for Income Taxes The effective income tax rate for 2019 was 23.5 percent compared to 22.8 percent in 2018. The effective tax rate of 23.5 percent for the full-year 2019 was higher than the prior year, primarily due to a year-over-year reduction in the excess tax benefits related to the vesting of equity-based compensation awards. During the fourth quarter of 2018, the Company finalized its tax accounting for the TCJA and pursuant to Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (“SAB 118”) recorded a one-time non-cash charge of $0.6 million related to adjustments to deferred tax amounts provisionally recorded in the prior year. During the fourth quarter of 2017, the Company recorded a provisional one-time non-cash charge of $13.2 million related to the enactment of the TCJA. The charge resulted from the re-measurement of the Company’s deferred tax assets considering the TCJA’s newly enacted tax rates. This provisional amount was subject to adjustment during the measurement period of up to one year following the December 2017 enactment of the TCJA, as provided by SEC guidance. Excluding the one-time charge, the Company’s effective tax rate for 2018 was 22.5 percent compared to 31.4 percent for 2017, as referenced in the “Non-GAAP Measures” section. The 2018 effective tax rate, adjusted for the impact of TCJA, was lower than 2017 primarily due to the reduction in the U.S. corporate income tax rate. The Company estimates the 2020 effective income tax rate to be approximately 24 percent to 26 percent. Non-GAAP Measures In addition to reporting financial results in accordance with U.S. GAAP, the Company also has included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K non-GAAP measures that adjust for the impact of enactment of the TCJA. This item represented a significant charge that impacted the Company’s financial results in 2017 and, to a lesser extent, in 2018. Net income, earnings per diluted share, the provision for income taxes and the effective tax rate are all measures for which the Company provides the reported GAAP measure and an adjusted measure. The adjusted measures are not in accordance with, nor are they a substitute for, GAAP measures. The Company considers these non-GAAP measures in evaluating and managing the Company’s operations. The Company believes that discussion of results adjusted for this item is meaningful to investors as it provides a useful analysis of ongoing underlying operating trends. In addition, from time to time, certain of these non-GAAP measures may also be used in our compensation programs. The determination of these non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to the determination of similarly titled measures used by other companies. The following are reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures. 33 (1) During the fourth quarter of 2018, the Company finalized its tax accounting for the TCJA and pursuant to SAB 118 recorded a one-time non-cash charge of $0.6 million related to adjustments to deferred tax amounts provisionally recorded in the prior year. During the fourth quarter of 2017, the Company recorded a provisional one-time non-cash charge of $13.2 million related to the enactment of the TCJA. The charge resulted from the re-measurement of the Company’s deferred tax assets considering the TCJA’s newly enacted tax rates. This provisional amount was subject to adjustment during the measurement period of up to one year following the December 2017 enactment of the TCJA, as provided by SEC guidance. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES The Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows reflect the following for the years ended December 31: Cash Flows from Operations Net cash flows provided by operating activities were $269.5 million in 2019, compared to $156.6 million in 2018. Changes in net assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions of businesses, in 2019 generated $117.1 million more cash than in 2018. This was partially offset by a $4.2 million decrease in net income, adjusted for depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense, deferred taxes, and other non-cash items. Reduced inventory levels driven by lower commodity prices and reductions in Furrion inventory during 2019 were the primary sources of cash generated from reductions in net assets. Over the long term, based on the Company’s historical collection and payment patterns, as well as inventory turnover, and also giving consideration to emerging trends and changes to the sales mix, the Company expects working capital to increase or decrease equivalent to approximately 10 to 15 percent of the increase or decrease, respectively, in net sales. However, there are many factors that can impact this relationship, especially in the short term. Depreciation and amortization was $75.4 million in 2019, and is expected to be approximately $105 million to $110 million in 2020. Non-cash stock-based compensation in 2019 was $16.1 million. Non-cash stock-based compensation is expected to be approximately $16 million to $21 million in 2020. Net cash flows provided by operating activities were $156.6 million in 2018, compared to $152.7 million in 2017. The increase was primarily due to a $25.2 million increase in net income, adjusted for non-cash items, partially offset by a $21.3 million use of cash for net assets and liabilities. Inventory growth was the primary use of cash in net assets due to hedge buying of raw materials, the rapid industry slow-down at the end of 2018, and purchases in advance of the Chinese New Year. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows used in investing activities of $503.8 million in 2019 were primarily comprised of $447.8 million for the acquisition of businesses and $58.2 million for capital expenditures. Cash flows used in investing activities of $302.8 million in 2018 were primarily comprised of $184.8 million for the acquisition of businesses and $119.8 million for capital expenditures. 34 Cash flows used in investing activities of $145.9 million in 2017 were primarily comprised of $87.2 million for capital expenditures and $60.6 million for the acquisition of businesses. The Company’s capital expenditures are primarily for replacement and growth. Over the long term, based on the Company’s historical capital expenditures, the replacement portion has averaged approximately one to two percent of net sales, while the growth portion has averaged approximately two to three percent of net sales. However, there are many factors that can impact the actual spending compared to these historical averages. The 2019 capital expenditures and acquisitions were funded by cash from operations and borrowings under the Company’s credit agreement. Capital expenditures and acquisitions in 2020 are expected to be funded primarily from cash generated from operations, as well as periodic borrowings under the Company’s revolving credit facility. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows provided by financing activities in 2019 primarily included term loan borrowings of $300.0 million, net borrowings on the revolving credit facility of $26.5 million, partially offset by the payment of dividends to stockholders of $63.8 million, and $8.1 million from the vesting of stock-based awards, net of shares tendered for the payment of taxes. Cash flows provided by financing activities in 2018 primarily included net borrowings on the revolving credit facility of $240.1 million offset by the payment of dividends to stockholders of $59.3 million, repurchases of common stock of $28.7 million under the stock repurchase program, and $16.1 million from the vesting of stock-based awards, net of shares tendered for the payment of taxes. Cash flows used in financing activities in 2017 primarily included the payment of dividends to stockholders of $51.1 million, $10.5 million from the vesting of stock-based awards, net of shares tendered for the payment of taxes, and $5.3 million in payments for contingent consideration related to acquisitions. The Company had no outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility as of December 31, 2017, but borrowings reached a high of $9.8 million during 2017. In connection with certain business acquisitions, if established sales targets for the acquired products are achieved, the Company is contractually obligated to pay additional cash consideration. The Company has recorded a $4.4 million liability for the aggregate fair value of these expected contingent consideration liabilities at December 31, 2019. For further information, see Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Credit Facilities See Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of our credit facilities. The Company believes the availability under the revolving credit facility under the Amended Credit Agreement (as defined in Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), along with its cash flows from operations, are adequate to finance the Company’s anticipated cash requirements for the next twelve months. 35 Contractual Obligations and Commitments Future minimum commitments relating to the Company’s contractual obligations at December 31, 2019 were as follows: a. The Company has used the contractual payment dates and the fixed interest rates in effect as of December 31, 2019, to determine the estimated future interest payments for fixed rate indebtedness. b. Includes amounts payable under employment contracts and arrangements, and retirement and severance agreements. c. Includes amounts payable under deferred compensation arrangements. The Other column represents the liability for deferred compensation for employees that have elected to receive payment upon separation from service from the Company. d. Comprised of estimated future contingent consideration payments for which a liability has been recorded in connection with business acquisitions. e. Primarily comprised of (i) purchase orders issued in the normal course of business and (ii) long term purchase commitments, for which the Company has estimated the expected future obligation based on current prices and usage. f. Represents unrecognized tax benefits, as well as related interest and penalties. Commitments are described more fully in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Company is in compliance with the corporate governance requirements of the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange. The Company’s governance documents and committee charters and key practices have been posted to the Company’s website ( www.lci1.com ) and are updated periodically. The website also contains, or provides direct links to, all SEC filings, press releases and investor presentations. The Company has also established a Whistleblower Policy, which includes a toll-free hotline (877-373-9123) to report complaints about the Company’s accounting, internal controls, auditing matters or other concerns. The Whistleblower Policy and procedure for complaints can be found on the Company’s website ( www.lci1.com ). CONTINGENCIES Additional information required by this item is included under Item 3 of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES The Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, which requires certain estimates and assumptions to be made that affect the amounts and disclosures reported in those financial statements and the related accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from these estimates and assumptions. The following critical accounting policies, some of which are impacted significantly by judgments, assumptions and estimates, affect the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements. Management has discussed 36 the development and selection of its critical accounting policies with the Audit Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors and the Audit Committee has reviewed the disclosure presented below relating to the critical accounting policies. Warranty The Company provides warranty terms based upon the type of product sold. The Company estimates the warranty accrual based upon various factors, including historical warranty costs, current trends, product mix, and sales. The accounting for warranty accruals requires the Company to make assumptions and judgments, and to the extent actual results differ from original estimates, adjustments to recorded accruals may be required. Fair Value of Net Assets of Acquired Businesses The Company values the assets and liabilities associated with the acquisitions of businesses on the respective acquisition dates. Depending upon the type of asset or liability acquired, the Company uses different valuation techniques in determining the fair value. Those techniques include comparable market prices, long-term sales, profitability and cash flow forecasts, assumptions regarding future industry-specific economic and market conditions and a market participant’s weighted average cost of capital, as well as other techniques as circumstances require. By their nature, these assumptions require judgment, and if management had chosen different assumptions, the fair value of net assets of acquired businesses would have been different. For further information on acquired assets and liabilities, see Notes 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. New Accounting Pronouncements Information required by this item is included in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. INFLATION The prices of key raw materials, consisting primarily of steel and aluminum, and components used by the Company which are made from these raw materials, are influenced by demand and other factors specific to these commodities, rather than being directly affected by inflationary pressures. Prices of these commodities have historically been volatile, and over the past few months prices have continued to fluctuate. The Company did not experience any significant increases in its labor costs in 2019 related to inflation. Item 7A.