 PART I Item 1. Business Company Overview Who We Are Our vision is to be the zero-emissions transportation industry leader. We plan to realize this vision through world-class partnerships, groundbreaking research and development, and a revolutionary business model. According to the Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, and the European Environment Agency, or EEA, the transportation industry causes an estimated 25% to 30% of U.S. and EU greenhouse gas, or GHG, emissions. While heavy-duty trucking represents less than 10% of the transportation industry by volume, it is responsible for approximately 40% of transportation industry GHG according to the International Council on Clean Transportation, or ICCT. With ever-expanding e-commerce freight demands, zero-emission vehicles are believed to be one of the only viable options for a sustainable future. We are a technology innovator and integrator, working to develop innovative energy and transportation solutions. We are pioneering a business model that will enable corporate customers to integrate next-generation truck technology, hydrogen fueling and charging infrastructure, and related maintenance. By creating this ecosystem, we and our strategic business partners and suppliers expect to build a long-term competitive advantage for clean technology vehicles and next generation fueling solutions. Our expertise lies in design, innovation, software, and engineering. We assemble, integrate, and commission our vehicles in collaboration with our business partners and suppliers. Our approach has always been to leverage strategic partnerships to help lower cost, increase capital efficiency and accelerate speed to market. To date, we believe we have assembled world-class partners and we plan to continue to add partners where appropriate. We operate in two business units: Truck and Energy. The Truck business unit is developing and commercializing battery electric vehicles, or BEV, and hydrogen fuel cell electric vehicles, or FCEV, Class 8 trucks that provide environmentally friendly, cost-effective solutions to the short-haul, medium-haul, and long-haul trucking sector. The Energy business unit is focused on developing and constructing a hydrogen fueling ecosystem and providing BEV charging support to meet anticipated fuel demand for our FCEV and BEV customers, as well as other third-party customers. We believe the key differentiator of our business model is our planned hydrogen fueling ecosystem, which includes (1) hydrogen production and hydrogen procurement, (2) hydrogen distribution, and (3) hydrogen storage and dispensing. Historically, investing in alternative fuel vehicles represented a high risk for both original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, and customers due to the uncertainty of the fueling infrastructure. Existing fuel providers have limited incentive to deploy the required resources and capital to develop an alternative fuel infrastructure due to a lack of known demand. The inability to tackle both sides of this equation has prohibited hydrogen from reaching its full potential. Our approach aims to solve this "chicken or the egg" problem, by pairing dedicated fueling demand from our FCEV trucks to the refueling infrastructure to reduce the risk of developing the infrastructure while giving our customers the assurance that fuel will be available where and when they need it. We believe this strategy could help unlock hydrogen's potential as the fuel of the future. For FCEV customers, we may offer a bundled lease model, which would be inclusive of the cost of the truck, hydrogen fuel, and maintenance. We expect that our go-to-market strategy would offer a fixed price per mile through a bundled lease to our customers, although alternative structures may be available, especially in the early stages of the FCEV roll-out. Our bundled lease model has the potential to de-risk infrastructure development by locking in fuel demand from our dedicated route customers. This locked in demand is designed to ensure high station utilization. For the BEV, we plan to offer both direct sale and lease models. We believe our hydrogen fueling ecosystem will provide a competitive advantage and help accelerate the adoption of our FCEV. We believe our product portfolio and hydrogen fueling ecosystem provide a key strategic advantage that differentiates us from competitors and will allow us to provide significant and valuable innovation to the estimated $600 billion global heavy-duty commercial vehicle and the related fueling and maintenance total addressable market, or TAM. Market Total Addressable Market We believe our bundled lease model will allow us to expand our TAM significantly when compared to traditional OEMs. 1 Globally, the TAM, is estimated to be a $600 billion per year with steady growth expected to continue as e-commerce and global economic growth fuel the need for more heavy-duty trucks. Based on data provided by ACT Research, the estimated $600 billion TAM is as follows: • Global Class 8 Truck Sales Market: Approximately $118 billion ($36 billion U.S. market, $32 billion EU market, $50 billion rest of world or ROW) • Global Fueling Market: Approximately $367 billion ($63 billion U.S. market, $93 billion EU market, $211 billion ROW) • Global Service and Maintenance Market: Approximately $112 billion ($29 billion U.S. market, $26 billion EU market, $57 billion ROW) According to ACT Research, the active Class 8 truck population is expected to grow by approximately 5.0% annually from 2019 to 2023. Class 8 Market Segmentation Private Fleet vs. For-Hire Fleet Segmentation ACT Research segments the on-highway Class 8 freight market between private and for-hire fleets, representing 53% and 47% of the Class 8 market, respectively. According to ACT Research, private fleets, such as PepsiCo or Sysco, are almost all regular route operations or "dedicated" routes running point-to-point. ACT Research further breaks down the for-hire market, such as JB Hunt or XPO Logistics, into: contract 32%, spot 12%, and dedicated 3%. According to ACT Research, dedicated for-hire fleets are mostly outsourced by shippers to run point-to-point. Length of Haul Segmentation ACT Research breaks down the Class 8 truck market by the length-of-haul. The length-of-haul refers to the distance of an outbound load and return trip. • Short-haul less than 200 miles: applications include agricultural and drayage operations. • Medium-haul 200-500 miles: applications include private fleet distribution, less than truckload operations, and regional for-hire fleets. • Long-haul over 500 miles: applications include regular and irregular for-hire fleets, and private fleet regular route operations. E-commerce Driving Expansion of Freight Moved by Trucks According to the Freight Analysis Framework and the U.S. Department of Transportation Statistics, in 2017, approximately 40% of all freight was moved by trucks in the U.S. and that amount is expected to continue to grow. According to Eurostat, in Europe, approximately 52% of all freight in 2017 was moved by trucks. That number is expected to grow approximately 30% through 2030. According to ACT Research, globally, the active Class 8 truck population is expected to increase from 7.3 million in 2018, to 9.2 million in 2023, as emerging markets drive volume growth. Shift to Zero-Emission Vehicles According to EPA and the EEA reports as of 2017, the transportation industry causes an estimated 25% to 30% of U.S. and European GHG emissions. While heavy-duty trucking represents less than 10% of the vehicle population, the ICCT estimates it is responsible for approximately 40% of emissions from the transportation industry, making them disproportionate contributors to pollution. Diesel vehicles are a major source of harmful air pollutants and GHG emissions. The associated local air pollution, particulates of oxides of nitrogen and particulate matter emissions, negatively impacts health and quality of life. Additionally, diesel exhaust has been classified as a potential human carcinogen by the EPA and the International Agency for Research on Cancer. Studies done on exposure to high levels of diesel exhaust indicate a greater risk of lung cancer. A significant share of global GHG emissions stem from heavy-duty vehicle transportation. We believe zero-emission vehicles are one of the viable options to reduce emissions in the transportation sector to meet climate, ozone, and regulatory targets. According to the U.S. Emissions Center for Climate and Energy Solutions, in 2017, U.S. GHG emissions totaled 6,457 million metric tons, or MMT, of CO 2 equivalents. Medium and heavy-duty vehicles accounted for 7% of total emissions, equal to 431 MMT of CO 2 equivalents. The EEA’s report on GHG in Europe found that in 2017, EU GHG emissions totaled 4,481 MMT of CO 2 equivalents. Heavy-duty vehicles accounted for 5% of total emissions, equal to 224 MMT of CO 2 equivalents. 2 A strong consensus among the largest governments calls for a global push to shift to zero-emission vehicles and the eventual elimination of internal combustion engine, or ICE vehicles. According to the Center for Climate Protections "Survey on Global Activities to Phase Out ICE Vehicles" report, actions being taken by national and local governments include: • The following cities signed the C40 Fossil-Fuel-Free Streets Declaration: Electric buses by 2025, ICE vehicles banned by 2030: Athens, Auckland, Barcelona, Cape Town, Copenhagen, Heidelberg, London, Los Angeles, Madrid, Milan, Mexico City, Paris, Quito and Rome. • Additionally, Delhi, Hamburg, Oslo, Oxford, and Tokyo, have all began to implement and propose plans to move towards all zero-emissions vehicles. Countries Phasing Out ICE Vehicles (specific actions vary by country): • Austria: No new ICE vehicles sold after 2030; • China: End production and sales of ICE vehicles by 2040; • Denmark: 775,000 electric vehicles, or EVs, on the road by 2030, tax incentive in place; • France: Ban the sale of petrol and diesel cars by 2040; • Germany: No registration of ICE vehicles by 2030 (passed by legislature); cities can ban diesel cars; • India: Target of no new ICE vehicles sold after 2030; • Ireland: No new ICE vehicles sold after 2030; Incentive program in place for EV sales; • Israel: No new ICE vehicle imports after 2030; • Japan: Incentive program in place for EV sales; • Netherlands: No new ICE vehicles sold after 2030; Phase out begins 2025; • Norway: Sell only electric and hybrid vehicles starting in 2025; • Portugal: Official target and incentive in place for EV sales; • Scotland: No new ICE vehicles sold after 2032; • Spain: Incentive package to promote sales of alternative energy vehicles; • Sweden: Ban of new ICE vehicle sales in 2030; • Taiwan: Phase out fossil fuel-powered motorcycles by 2035 and fossil fuel-powered vehicles by 2040. Additionally, the replacement of all government vehicles and public buses with electric versions by 2030; and • United Kingdom: Ban the sale of petrol and diesel cars starting in 2030. With such strong sentiment to reduce global GHG emissions from leading governments, OEMs will have to spend significant additional research and development on existing models to remain compliant in the near term, or they will face heavy fines. In Europe, there will be a mandatory 15% reduction in CO 2 emissions by 2025, and a 30% reduction target by 2030. There will be a financial penalty for failure to achieve these targets. The level of the penalties is 4,250 Euros and 6,800 Euros per gCO 2 / tonne-kilometre, or tkm, in 2025 and 2030, respectively. Conventional diesel technology will most likely not be able to meet the European targets set for 2025 and 2030. These ambitious CO 2 targets are likely "technology-forcing" towards alternative powertrains such as battery-electric and hydrogen fuel cell. In early 2021, the Biden administration has established measurable steps and metrics with the purpose of limiting global climate change. Changes already enacted to accomplish this goal include re-joining the Paris Climate Agreement, an international treaty designed to reduce climate change, and promising to replace the U.S. government’s existing vehicle fleet with “net zero emission” electric vehicles. In addition to the steps already taken, we expect that the U.S. government will enact stricter vehicle emissions standards while offering incentives that drive vehicle owners and manufacturers to zero emission solutions. This market shift to clean energy transportation, backed by the Biden administration, offers a background in which we believe we are well-positioned to succeed. 3 In addition, consumers are increasingly demanding that corporations take action to reduce their carbon footprint. An article by Nielsen from 2018 cited that nearly half (48%) of U.S. consumers said they would "definitely" or "probably" change their consumption habits to reduce their impact on the environment, placing reducing emissions high on the agenda for large corporations. For example: • Amazon has pledged to become carbon neutral by 2040; • BP has pledged to become carbon neutral by 2050; • DB Schenker plans to make its transport activities in European cities emission-free by 2030; • DHL set a goal to reduce all logistics-related emissions to zero by 2050; • UPS has committed to sourcing 40% of its ground fuel from low carbon or alternative fuels by 2025; • Walmart set a goal to be zero emissions across its global operations by 2040 and to work with suppliers to reduce emissions by 1 gigaton by 2030; and • Microsoft has committed to be carbon negative by 2030, and that by 2050 it hopes will have sequestrated enough carbon to account for all direct emissions it has ever made. U.S. Market Policy Trends The following are recent policy trends and initiatives that have been enacted or are in development, which promote the growth of zero-emission trucks and infrastructure and the development of a national hydrogen economy: Federal Policy • Congress passed the $1.2 trillion Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, or IIJA, with President Biden signing the legislation into law in November 2021. The legislation included $7.5 billion for transportation electrification, including $2.5 billion for a new charging and fueling infrastructure grant program, and provided $9.5 billion for clean hydrogen programs. • President Biden signed an Executive Order in December 2021 launching the “Federal Sustainability Plan” to demonstrate how the federal government will leverage its scale and procurement power to address climate change. Specifically, the executive order aims to “reduce emissions across federal operations, invest in American clean energy industries and manufacturing, and create clean, healthy and resilient communities.” State Policy • California Governor Gavin Newsom unveiled his proposed budget, The California Blueprint on January 10, 2022. If approved by the state legislature, the budget proposes a significant zero-emission vehicle (ZEV) investment of an additional $6.1 billion on top of last year’s budget of $3.9 billion, bringing the total investment over six years to $10 billion. Of this amount, nearly $6 billion is identified for medium and heavy-duty efforts (vehicles and infrastructure). The budget also includes $100 million proposed for development and production of green electrolytic hydrogen. The proposed budget is expected to be voted on by the state legislature in the summer of 2022. • Several states have moved to adopt California’s “Advanced Clean Trucks” (ACT) rule including Oregon, Washington, New Jersey and New York. Massachusetts is moving forward with the regulation. ACT adoption is anticipated to take place in at least seven additional states in 2022, including Maine, Vermont and Colorado. Additionally, Maryland and Connecticut legislatures are expected to be considering legislation requiring the states to move on ACT. Administrations in Illinois and Nevada are also expected to initiate ACT proceedings if they receive enough support from the business community. • Washington joined California and Oregon to enact a Carbon Fuel Standard program. The carbon fuel standard in Washington aims to reduce the carbon intensity of state transportation fuels by awarding credits to low-carbon fuels and assigning deficits to higher-carbon petroleum fuels. GHG emissions from transportation fuels sold in Washington must be 20 percent below 2017 levels by 2038, with specific interim steps ranging from 0.5% to 1.5% per year. • The implementation of Washington’s Clean Fuels Program will be linked to existing low carbon fuel standard, or LCFS, programs in Oregon and California, which is expected to create a west coast market for biofuels and other 4 low-carbon transportation fuels, as well as a potential regional market for LCFS carbon reduction credits driving demand for zero-emission vehicles. • Additional states considering carbon or renewable fuel standard programs include Colorado, New Mexico, New York, Minnesota, and Massachusetts. The Midwestern Clean Fuels Policy Initiative aims to create a market specifically for regional clean fuel producers that simultaneously delivers environmental and economic benefits, and includes the states of Minnesota as well as Iowa, Wisconsin and Illinois. South Dakota and Nebraska are also evaluating the role of such programs in their states. Other Policy Items • Hydrogen coalitions and stakeholder groups are increasing their involvement in initiatives and policies at the national and state levels. For example, the Clean Hydrogen Future Coalition and Fuel Cell Hydrogen Energy Association were proactive in advancing and supporting the hydrogen agenda in the IIJA. The California Hydrogen Business Council, Renewable Hydrogen Alliance (Pacific Northwest), Midwest Hydrogen Coalition, Texas Hydrogen Alliance, Oklahoma Hydrogen Task Force, and others continue to advance hydrogen-related initiatives at the state level, with new stakeholder groups and initiatives forming in preparation for national investment from the U.S. Department of Energy in Regional Clean Hydrogen Hubs across the country. • Efforts continue by utilities across a number of states focusing on transportation electrification planning, grid modernization efforts, including energy storage targets, innovative pilot programs, advanced rate design pilots, electric grid resilience, battery storage deployments and emerging discussion around hydrogen as a potential clean energy source. Policy and regulatory activity benefiting zero-emission trucks and next generation fueling technologies are likely to continue at the national and state levels, with potential support for advancing a climate-related agenda related to the Build Back Better Act and additional state legislation related to clean fuels standards, transportation electrification and fueling infrastructure and hydrogen market development. Given our product portfolio, we believe we are well suited to take advantage of current and contemplated incentive programs. Zero-Emission Vehicle Incentive Programs In addition to the policy initiatives discussed above, there are vehicle specific incentive programs aimed to help lower the upfront or operational costs of zero-emission vehicles. For example, funding programs like California’s Hybrid Zero Emission Truck and Voucher Incentive Project, or HVIP, and New York’s Truck Voucher Incentive Program, or NYTVIP, continue to play a critical role in zero-emissions truck adoption. For example, in 2021, HVIP provided nearly 2,000 incentive vouchers for medium and heavy-duty trucks and buses, totaling over $255 million, including $100 million for electric Class 8 vehicles. The California Air Resources Board, or CARB, recently approved Nikola’s Tre BEV model for participation in this program, enabling potential customers to receive $120,000, or $150,000 for drayage operations, towards the lease or purchase of the vehicle. An application for approval to the NYTVIP is currently being reviewed, with a determination anticipated in the next few months. Should Nikola receive approval for the NYTVIP, the Tre BEV is expected to become one of the first zero-emission Class 8 truck registered in the program. Participation in both programs will provide an opportunity for Nikola’s Tre BEV to penetrate markets on both the West and East Coasts. Hydrogen Fuel Cell and Battery Technology Momentum With the global push to eliminate ICE vehicles, battery-electric and fuel cell technologies currently stand out as the best alternatives to diesel. Both battery costs, a key cost competent of a BEV, and electricity prices, a key cost component in hydrogen fuel production, have decreased significantly over the past decade, and prices continue to decrease. These cost reductions significantly improve the economics of BEV and FCEV trucks. A January 2020 report published by the Hydrogen Council highlighted how policy and economic forces are converging, creating momentum in the hydrogen sector. This momentum is buoyed by: • 66 countries having announced net zero-emissions as a target by 2050; • Approximately 80% decrease in global average renewable energy prices since 2010; and • Expected 55 times growth in electrolysis capacity by 2025 compared to 2015. 5 Zero-Emission Vehicles Enabled by Significant Reduction in Battery Cost and Renewable Electricity Prices The majority of the cost of production of a BEV truck, and a major cost component of a FCEV truck, lie in the cost of the battery. As illustrated in a 2019 report by Bloomberg NEF, from 2010 to 2018, lithium-ion battery prices have fallen from $1,160 per kilowatt-hour, or kWh, to $176 per kWh, representing an 85% cost reduction. As investment in battery technology continues to increase as a result of OEMs allocating more capital to next-generation powertrain technology, this trend in battery cost reduction is expected to continue. Conversely, vehicles that run on lithium-ion battery-electric power can experience battery capacity and performance loss over time, depending on the use and age of the battery. For hydrogen production produced on-site via electrolysis, we expect electricity costs to account for approximately 75% to 85% of the total cost. According to Lazard’s November 2019 Levelized Cost of Energy Analysis, the cost of producing renewable energy has dropped significantly since 2009. In 2009, the global average solar and wind levelized cost of energy was $359 per megawatt-hour, or MWh, and $135 per MWh, respectively. In 2019, these costs were $40 per MWh for solar and $41 per MWh for wind, representing a cost reduction of 89% and 70%, respectively. In addition to the cost of electricity production, we expect to incur additional costs relating to the transmission, distribution and storage of energy. Industry Focused on TCO In the highly competitive trucking industry, when choosing between truck models that meet their technical and safety requirements, customers typically base their purchasing decision on total cost of ownership, or TCO. TCO is the total cost of owning the truck through its lifecycle, including lease cost or purchase payment, fuel cost, service, and maintenance. According to ACT Research, traditionally, TCO for diesel trucks (excluding driver wages, benefits, and insurance), is typically broken down into cost of fuel (approximately 50%), purchase or lease payments on truck (approximately 22%), and repairs and maintenance (approximately 28%). According to ACT Research, historically, diesel fuel comprises 40% to 60% of TCO, depending on prevailing diesel fuel prices. With the incumbent ICE technology, fleet operators are also forced to accept volatility in their largest cost component, creating risk and uncertainty. We expect that our bundled lease model will provide customers TCO clarity for the first time in the industry’s history. Industry and Competition Competition in the Class 8 heavy-duty truck industry is intense as new regulatory requirements for vehicle emissions, technological advances, and shifting customer demands are causing the industry to evolve towards zero-emission solutions. We believe the primary competitive factors in the Class 8 market include, but are not limited to: • vehicle safety; • vehicle quality and reliability; • total cost of ownership (TCO); • availability of charging or re-fueling network; • service quality • product performance • improved operations and fleet management; • emissions profile; • technological innovation; and • ease of autonomous capability development. Similar to traditional OEMs in the passenger vehicle market, incumbent commercial transportation OEMs are burdened with legacy systems and the need to generate sufficient return on existing infrastructure, which historically created a reluctance to embrace new zero-emission drivetrain technology. The global push for lower emissions combined with vast technological improvements in fuel cell and battery-electric powertrain technologies has resulted in well-established OEMs beginning to invest in zero-emission vehicle platforms. However, in the near term, it appears that their primary focus continues to be on their traditional ICE product lines, and they are only introducing zero emissions products in limited capacity. We believe this creates an opportunity for us. 6 The competitive landscape for our Class 8 vehicles ranges from vehicles relying on legacy internal combustion engines, battery electric trucks, hydrogen fuel cell trucks, and compressed natural gas. Most of our current and potential competitors have greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing, and other resources than we do. They may be able to deploy greater resources to the design, development, manufacturing, distribution, promotion, sales, marketing and support of their programs. Additionally, many of our competitors also have greater name recognition, longer operating histories, larger sales forces, broader customer and industry relationships. Although we do not have the same name recognition or operating history as most of our competition, we believe that our focus on delivering zero emissions Class 8 trucks, and innovative charging and fueling solutions, along with a strong service and dealer network, provides us with a head start that is not burdened by legacy infrastructure and product portfolios. BEV Competition Tesla, Daimler, Volvo, as well as other automotive manufacturers, have announced their plans to bring Class 8 BEV trucks to the market over the coming years. Other competitors include BYD, Peterbilt, XOS, Lion, Volvo, Hyliion, and potentially Cummins. We believe all of these competitors are in various stages of rolling out their vehicles, including pilot programs and providing test vehicles to customers. We believe that we compete favorably with our competitors as the range of Nikola Tre BEV truck is higher than most of our competitors. FCEV Competition Due to higher barriers to entry, there are fewer competitors in the FCEV Class 8 market as compared to BEV market. However, Hyundai and Toyota have chosen to focus their efforts on FCEV as the powertrain of the future. Hyundai has announced plans to offer FCEV trucks and invest in hydrogen stations for refueling. Toyota is collaborating with Kenworth. Daimler and Volvo announced a proposed joint venture to develop fuel cell systems for heavy-duty trucks. Other potential competitors include Navistar, Hino and Hyzon. Products As the commercial transportation sector transitions towards zero-emission solutions, we believe there will be a need to offer tailored solutions that meet the needs of each customer. By offering both BEV (for short and medium-haul, city, regional, and drayage deliveries) and FCEV (for medium and long-haul) solutions, we believe we are positioned to change the commercial transportation sector by providing solutions that address the full range of customer needs. 7 The electrical propulsion of our BEV and FCEV trucks has a modular design which allows the batteries and associated controls to be configured to either a BEV or FCEV propulsion. Our architecture inside the centralized e-axle is configured for the appropriate power needs for the BEV and FCEV for a wide range of applications. Our cab-over design allows us to address both the European and North American markets which provides engineering and manufacturing synergies. We have developed a portfolio of proprietary electrified architectures and associated technologies that are embedded and integrated into our BEV and FCEV trucks. 8 Nikola's Class 8 BEV - Nikola Tre The Nikola Tre Class 8 truck is based on the S-WAY platform from Iveco and integrates our electrified propulsion, technology, controls and infotainment. In addition, we redesigned the majority of the high-visibility components and body panels of the S-WAY truck and added several new interior features including a digital cockpit with an infotainment screen, instrument screen and panel, redesigned steering wheel, and new seats. The cab-over design is desirable for city center applications due to shorter vehicle length, improved maneuverability, and better visibility. We are marketing the Nikola Tre BEV for short and medium-haul applications in North America and Europe. The BEV version of Nikola Tre is expected to be one of the first zero emission Class 8 trucks to market. BEV trucks run on a fully electric drivetrain powered by rechargeable batteries. Our BEV has an estimated range of up to 350 miles and is designed to address the short and medium-haul market. During the initial roll-out, most of our customers indicated that they intend to charge at their terminal. To help facilitate this, along with our dealer network and key partners, we plan to provide consulting expertise and, as required, products and services designed to ensure charging is available. Sales of the Nikola Tre BEV are currently expected to begin in the second quarter of 2022 in North America. Nikola Tre BEV Specifications (estimated specifications as of December 2021, subject to change) • Battery Size: 753 kWh • Recharge Time: approximately 140 minutes (estimate based on testing to achieve an 80% state-of-charge from 10%. The charging test had an average power of 226kW) • Continuous Power Output: 645 HP • Wheelbase: 186 inches 9 Nikola's Class 8 FCEV Trucks - Nikola Tre and Nikola Two Renderings of Nikola Tre and Nikola Two FCEV trucks use fuel cells on-board to convert hydrogen into electricity to power the electric motors which transmit power to the wheels. The fuel cell generates electricity through a chemical reaction, supplied from on-board hydrogen tanks, and oxygen from the atmosphere. A much smaller battery (compared to our BEV) provides supplemental power to the drivetrain, and stores energy recovered during regenerative braking. The voltage and charge of the battery are maintained through a combination of power supplied from the fuel cell and energy captured through regenerative braking. In North America, we plan to develop and launch two FCEV truck platforms. The Nikola Tre FCEV is targeted for medium missions ranging up to 500 miles per fill of the hydrogen tanks. Its scalable architecture is expected to address the majority of the North American day-cab market. The Tre FCEV leverages the Tre BEV platform with modifications for hydrogen fuel cell operation, improved aerodynamics, and light-weighting. The Nikola Tre FCEV is currently expected to launch in 2023. The Nikola Two Sleeper Cab is targeted for long-haul missions with an operational range up to approximately 900 miles. This configuration allows for longer operation between fueling and is specifically designed for long-haul applications and extended highway operation. We expect that in the longer term as autonomous technologies relieve hours of service restrictions, FCEV trucks will be an ideal option for longer continuous hauls. Our FCEV trucks are designed to allow us to address the longer-term opportunity by combining our fuel cell technology and a network of hydrogen stations across North America. Nikola Tre FCEV Specifications (estimated specifications as of December 2021, subject to change) • Refuel Time: approximately 15 minutes • Continuous Power Output: 645 HP Nikola Energy Energy Overview We believe Nikola’s energy business, which is comprised of our planned hydrogen fueling ecosystem, and planned BEV charging solutions, is a key differentiator that has the potential to create long-term competitive benefits. Our energy business unit has assembled a strong team with deep energy industry experience, to provide focus and expertise in the key areas required to establish a comprehensive, low cost, safe, reliable, and efficient hydrogen delivery system for our customers. • Hydrogen Fueling Ecosystem – For FCEV fueling, our energy business unit is responsible for creating and procuring hydrogen and distributing the hydrogen supply through the full value chain, until the fuel is dispensed into FCEV trucks. • BEV Charging Solutions – For BEV charging needs, our strategy is to work with customers and our sales and service network to ensure customers have the appropriate charging infrastructure in place to support their adoption of our heavy-duty BEV trucks. Solutions may include, but are not limited to: behind-the-fence charging infrastructure on-property at a customer location (paid by customer), short-term mobile charging solutions, or public access charging infrastructure. 10 We believe infrastructure for BEV and FCEV trucks will be critical for mass adoption. Our energy business unit aims to provide fueling infrastructure to both Nikola and non-Nikola branded FCEV and BEV trucks. Hydrogen Fueling Ecosystem We are developing a hydrogen fueling ecosystem in North America and Europe to support FCEV customers and capture first mover advantage with respect to next generation fueling infrastructure. We are partnering throughout the hydrogen ecosystem to increase speed to market and reduce capital expenditures related to next generation fueling infrastructure. We view the hydrogen fueling ecosystem in three main sectors: (1) hydrogen production/procurement, (2) hydrogen distribution, and (3) hydrogen storage and dispensing, each with the potential to generate separate margins for us and our hydrogen ecosystem partners. Hydrogen Production/Procurement We expect to source hydrogen by leveraging multiple hydrogen production models including on-site production, large-scale "hub" production, or other alternative hydrogen production or procurement. We expect the hydrogen solution utilized by us in each case will depend on the unique characteristics near each potential station location. We intend to produce or procure the lowest carbon content hydrogen available while also ensuring a hydrogen supply that is safe, reliable, and economical. In certain cases where electricity can be procured in a cost-effective manner, we plan to produce hydrogen fuel on-site, via electrolysis. In other cases, we expect hydrogen fuel will be produced off-site at a large-scale production "hub" and distributed to nearby fueling stations under a supply "hub and spoke" structure. When on-site or hub-and spoke production is used, the electricity input for hydrogen fuel production is expected to be purchased via long-term supply agreements. Where practical, we and our partners may also source hydrogen via alternative methods, including third-party purchases, liquefaction, and steam-methane-reformation with carbon capture. We also plan to leverage multiple hydrogen production technologies. We have invested significant time and resources partnering with experts in hydrogen production technology across engineering, equipment manufacturing, and construction to understand the cost to develop, operate and optimize hydrogen production over time. In the future, we may use electrolysis, steam-methane-reforming, autothermal reforming, pyrolysis, and/or gasification to produce hydrogen. These technologies have improved over time and costs are decreasing. We also expect new technologies will be developed in the future, which we plan to consider employing as they become available. Where the production pathway employed produces carbon emissions, we intend to use carbon capture technologies to utilize or sequester it. This is to ensure our hydrogen is the lowest carbon intensity that can be economically produced to get the highest and best use from our limited energy resources as responsible global citizens. We expect to leverage multiple ownership structures where we either fully or partially own, or do not own hydrogen production assets. In cases where we are able to source hydrogen supply, without ownership of hydrogen production assets, we expect to enter into long-term supply contracts where our costs and surety of supply are well-defined. Hydrogen Distribution We expect hydrogen distribution to play a key role in the hydrogen fueling ecosystem when on-site hydrogen production is not utilized. We intend to collaborate with strategic partners or develop distribution capabilities to enhance value through the hydrogen fueling ecosystem. The hydrogen distribution network can include delivery and logistics of liquid, gas, and/or dissolved hydrogen distribution via tractor trailer, rail, pipeline, ship, or other methods of distribution. We and our partners will likely leverage multiple hydrogen distribution models in an effort to ensure efficient hydrogen distribution throughout the ecosystem. Hydrogen Dispensing and Storage We intend to collaborate with strategic partners and to develop hydrogen storage and dispensing stations. Each "base" dispensing station is expected to contain ample on-site hydrogen storage and to be capable of dispensing up to 4,000 to 8,000 kgs of hydrogen per day. Depending on the amount of land available at the dispensing site, the hydrogen storage and dispensing can be scaled up in increments of 1,000 kgs per day, as needed. Each 8,000 kg per day dispensing station could support approximately 200 FCEV trucks per day, with each incremental 1,000 kg per day dispensed, capable of supporting an additional 25 FCEV trucks per day. 11 Our base stations are expected to contain heavy-duty (for commercial trucks) and light-duty (for vehicles) hydrogen fueling dispensers. We also plan to install electric fast charging to support BEV trucks. Early dispensing stations could be smaller or larger depending on the unique characteristics of each site, including near-term and long-term customer demand, availability of hydrogen supply, land, and other relevant factors. We expect to leverage multiple structures for our dispensing station go-to-market strategy including stations wholly-owned, partially-owned, or not owned by us. Mobile Fueling Solutions To facilitate customer demonstrations, and to accelerate adoption of our BEV and FCEV trucks, we have developed mobile charging infrastructure that provides transitional charging (for BEV) or mobile hydrogen storage and dispensing (for FCEV) that can support customer fueling needs as fixed infrastructure is being developed and commissioned. In addition to providing early-stage fueling, we believe our mobile fueling solutions can play a key role in the development of our energy ecosystem. We believe mobile fueling assets can serve us by: • Accelerating vehicle and equipment testing; • Providing fueling opportunities in nascent geographies with low vehicle sales volumes; and • Providing risk mitigation and support during station outages or during periods of elevated demand. Today, and in the future, our mobile fueling solutions may be developed in-house, in conjunction with our partners, or solely by third parties. BEV Charging Solutions Early customers and potential customers indicated a preference to charge BEV trucks at their terminal or depot. To facilitate this, we, along with our dealer network and key partners, intend to provide charging infrastructure, consulting advisory, and, if required, products and services designed to ensure charging availability. Our solutions are focused in two key areas, short-term mobile charging and long-term fixed infrastructure. Mobile Charging We have designed and built the mobile charging trailer, or MCT, as a unique solution to support both vehicle testing in remote locations without fixed utility infrastructure as well as to support initial operations at our customer locations. By using the MCT, we are able to facilitate customer demonstrations and accelerate adoptions by providing transitional charging at the same time as fixed infrastructure is prepared. Powered by either a mobile generator set or a direct 480V three phase utility 12 connection, the MCT is able to provide emergency back-up charging to keep vehicles running during utility outages, as well as flexible capacity to meet demand fluctuations. Fixed Infrastructure Working closely with our customers, we provide guidance through the entire process of planning, development, and deployment of fixed charging infrastructure. By analyzing key data such as truck duty cycles, current and future electric loading, and key operating costs we, along with our dealers and partners, can optimize charging solutions that target operational and cost efficiency for each customer. Infrastructure Development Highly Coordinated with Truck Sales Strategy We take an integrated approach to infrastructure development, working closely with our sales and service team to ensure alignment among customer demand, service capabilities, and fueling and related infrastructure. Our goal is to focus infrastructure development on targeted regions and customers that create optimal value for our integrated business model. Initial U.S. Station Roll-out to Target California Due to the strong incentives for fueling infrastructure, zero-emission trucks, and low carbon fuel sales, initial stations will likely be located in California. California is the world’s fifth largest economy, with significant international and interstate commerce. Consequently, California contains some of the western hemisphere’s most active ports and intermodal facilities, which brings a significant volume of truck traffic, making it an ideal place for early adopters of FCEV and BEV products. As a result, we may choose to build up to approximately ten stations in California during our initial station roll-out. We expect these stations will supply fuel for our launch customers in those geographies that have dedicated routes, or significant activity in, California. We currently expect to begin securing sites in California in 2022 and then to proceed to build in phases to support customer demand and our FCEV production launch. We plan to strategically target other states that offer the right mix of product demand, supply of hydrogen, regulatory incentives, and other factors that allow us to offer customers our trucks at a total cost of ownership that can be competitive with diesel. European Station Network Strategy We expect to build a European hydrogen station network following a similar strategy. Several highly trafficked freight corridors exist in Europe, with logistics hubs in proximity to consumption centers, freight ports, and corridor crossroads. We plan to strategically deploy hydrogen stations along the key corridors and logistical hubs to maximize the efficiency of station 13 deployment. We expect that our ultimate station roll-out strategy and timing will also consider potential local incentives offered in Europe to ensure the most economically favorable station roll-out. We believe that a network of 70 to 90 hydrogen stations will provide approximately 85% coverage of Western European freight corridors. Hydrogen Ecosystem Partners We believe we have established strong partnerships that bring significant resources and capabilities that complement our own capabilities to create strategic benefits as we look to create the next generation fueling infrastructure. Collectively, we believe the partnerships we have assembled provide critical building blocks necessary to develop, construct, and operate the fueling ecosystem of the future. We believe the following partnerships and collaborations provide us key competitive benefits and may allow us to become a leader in providing comprehensive, low cost, safe, reliable, and efficient hydrogen delivery systems to FCEV customers. Production/Procurement Building Blocks APS – Low Cost Electricity Rate Enables Low Cost Hydrogen Production Via Electrolysis In January 2021, we secured approval of an innovative electricity rate schedule with Arizona Public Service Company, or APS, which accelerates our goal to develop and provide hydrogen fuel at price parity with diesel to the commercial transportation industry. By facilitating low-cost production of hydrogen, the Arizona Corporation Commission’s approval of this rate schedule is expected to help with the curtailment of GHG in the transportation sector, while also providing benefits to key constituents via novel grid-balancing solutions. We estimate that under the rate structure, we will be able to deliver hydrogen at favorable prices and within the ranges required for us to offer competitive lease rates for our FCEV customers. Additionally, the rate structure with APS could be utilized to produce hydrogen at a large-scale “hub” within the APS service territory. We believe a “hub” within the APS service territory would be ideally suited to serve dispensing stations located in Southern California. TC Energy – Production Partner with Access to Capital Could Reduce Capex Required by Nikola On October 7, 2021, we and TC Energy announced a strategic collaboration aimed at the development, construction, ownership and/or operation of critical hydrogen infrastructure for hydrogen fueled zero-emission heavy-duty trucks. By jointly developing hydrogen production hubs, we and TC Energy intend to support our projected hydrogen fuel supply needs to serve heavy-duty FCEV trucks and TC Energy customers’ clean energy needs in North America. This collaboration is positioned to leverage and optimize TC Energy’s existing asset footprint with access to advantaged renewable energy, biomass and natural gas feedstocks. We believe the partnership with TC Energy will provide us greater scale and speed to market by leveraging the existing infrastructure, know-how, and balance sheet of a well-capitalized industry peer to develop and create large-scale production facilities and other related infrastructure. We may also partner with TC Energy on hydrogen distribution, by leveraging TC Energy’s existing pipeline infrastructure. TC Energy’s pipeline infrastructure would be ideally suited to link hydrogen production “hubs” together to provide cross-regional access to hydrogen and to better link hydrogen supply with demand. Wabash Valley Resources – Low Cost Third-Party Hydrogen Supply Agreement On June 22, 2021, we entered into a Hydrogen Sale and Purchase Agreement with Wabash Valley Resources, or WVR, pursuant to which WVR agreed to sell us, and we agreed to purchase from WVR, hydrogen produced from the facility being developed by WVR in West Terre Haute, Indiana, or the Plant. This is expected to allow us to liquify and deliver approximately 53 tonnes per day of low carbon intensity hydrogen. The Plant plans to use solid waste byproducts such as petroleum coke combined with biomass to produce clean, sustainable hydrogen for transportation fuel and base-load electricity generation while capturing carbon emissions for permanent underground sequestration. In connection with the Hydrogen Purchase Agreement, on June 22, 2021, we also entered into a Membership Interests Purchase Agreement, or the MIPA, with WVR and the sellers party thereto or, collectively, the WVR Sellers, pursuant to which, subject to the terms and conditions therein, we purchased a 20% equity interest in WVR. 14 We believe the partnership with WVR will provide us access to low-cost hydrogen in a key geographic area with a high concentration of truck traffic. Distribution Building Blocks OGE Energy Corp. – Low-Cost Hydrogen Transport in Europe via Existing Natural Gas Pipeline On April 14, 2021, we and Iveco announced a hydrogen fueling infrastructure collaboration with OGE Energy Corp., or OGE, one of Europe’s leading pipeline operators. The collaboration is subject to execution of definitive agreements. OGE owns and operates approximately 12,000 kilometers of natural gas pipeline infrastructure in Germany. This collaboration is expected to provide cost-effective distribution of hydrogen from production to storage and fueling locations in Germany. This collaboration also has the potential to accelerate the hydrogen economy in Europe by providing an efficient hydrogen distribution network within OGE’s service area. Dispensing Building Blocks Travel Centers of America – Dispensing Station Partner with Access to Prime Re-fueling Locations On April 22, 2021, we and Travel Centers of America, or TA, announced an agreement to collaborate on the installation of heavy-duty hydrogen fueling stations, subject to execution of definitive agreements. The collaboration includes the development of a pilot station with the option to expand nationwide. The first station is planned to be constructed at an existing TA-Petro location in California and is targeted to be commercially operational by the first half of 2023. This station is expected to accelerate adoption of hydrogen fuel-cell-powered commercial electric trucks in California and will support fueling for our launch customers.The launch stations are expected to enable operations of next generation fueling technology in and around the greater Los Angeles region. The hydrogen fueling station targeted by us and TA is expected to provide for an open fueling network available to any truck customer, and we intend to follow a common industry standard for heavy-duty fueling protocols, which is intended to ensure compatibility across hydrogen fuel-cell truck manufacturers. OPAL Fuels – Dispensing Station Partner with Experience and Expertise Constructing Fueling Infrastructure On September 30, 2021, we entered into a memorandum of understanding with OPAL Fuels on the development, construction, and operation of hydrogen refueling stations in North America and the use of renewable natural gas in hydrogen production. Under this strategic engagement, we and OPAL Fuels intend to co-develop and co-market hydrogen refueling infrastructure to accelerate the adoption of heavy-duty zero-emission FCEV trucks. The initial focus of the collaboration is on developing the infrastructure required to more safely and reliably serve the needs of large private fleets that utilize their own dedicated property fueling infrastructure. We and OPAL Fuels also plan to identify and evaluate opportunities to establish public access hydrogen stations. OPAL Fuels has constructed more than 350 renewable natural gas fueling stations and has over 15 years of successful relationships with trucking fleets across the continent, reducing the carbon intensity of their fuel. Hydrogen Fueling Technology Today and Into Future Equipment Selection We are working closely with our development and supply chain partners to develop the next generation of fueling infrastructure to create, store, distribute, and dispense hydrogen. The hydrogen fueling ecosystem is in relative infancy when compared to the petroleum based fueling ecosystem, especially as it relates to heavy-duty, fast-fill technology. We and other industry participants are working to develop next generation fueling technologies and gain manufacturing scale. We believe over-time as the industry matures, next generation production, storage, and dispensing technology will see continual and at times significant improvements in cost and reliability. In 2019, the Hydrogen Heavy Duty Vehicle Industry Group was formed, which is comprised of Air Liquide, Hyundai, Nel Hydrogen, Nikola, Shell, and Toyota. The industry group was formed with the goal of addressing hydrogen fueling hardware challenges of achieving the fueling speeds that are needed for heavy-duty applications today. Other goals include testing and evaluating the hardware performance and standardizing the connector design to ensure global adoptability. In October 2021, the Hydrogen Heavy Duty Vehicle Industry Group signed agreements with Tatsuno Corporation and Transfer Oil S.p.A. to industrialize globally-standard 70 MPa (700 bar) hydrogen heavy-duty vehicle high-flow (H70HF) 15 fueling hardware components. The fueling hardware is anticipated to support average hydrogen fueling rates of 10kg/min, in line with the U.S. Department of Energy’s Technical Targets for Hydrogen-Fueled Long-Haul Tractor-Trailer Trucks. Test Storage and Dispensing Station Installed at Nikola's Phoenix HQ in 2019 Through our partnership with Nel ASA, a Norwegian hydrogen company, or Nel, we constructed a 1,000 kg demo storage and dispensing station which is capable of fueling up to 700 bar at approximately 1 kg, per minute at our corporate headquarters in Phoenix, Arizona. The technology we use at this station is currently utilized for non-commercial applications. The demonstration station, although operating at a very limited capacity, provides our engineers with the ability to test the fueling systems for our future FCEV trucks as well as fueling prototype Nikola FCEV trucks that are used for testing operations and demonstrations. We have gathered helpful data from this station, including fueling station operations in hot ambient temperatures, station permitting and construction, onsite storage pressurization, and station and systems operations. The demonstration station is utilized on an ad hoc basis and subject to downtime, however we believe it provides us with the experience we will need to troubleshoot and improve on our planned larger commercial stations. Sales, Service, and our Dealer Network Sales and Marketing We take a customer focused, integrated solution approach with our go-to-market strategy to deliver trucks along with the infrastructure and service to support them. Across the product portfolio, we are commissioning studies, performing market and segmentation research, and, with the help of our growing dealer network, gathering end-user insights to focus our sales and marketing efforts. We are generating brand awareness not only through traditional marketing and social media but also through direct customer meetings, industry events, and facility tours along with truck demos in Phoenix, Arizona and Ulm, Germany. Initial sales are expected to be a combination of national and strategic fleets led by us and supported by our dealers as well as local and regional customers led by our dealers and supported by us. Based on customer feedback received during visits to our facilities and our early demos, we have heard the following advantages when comparing our products to traditional ICE day-cab trucks: • Greatly reduced noise and smell • European style cab-over provides enhanced cabin room and visibility • Additional cabin room allows driver to move about or rest when parked (critical during long waiting times) • Lack of shifting along with regenerative breaking reduces driver fatigue • Strong positive responses to available power and torque • High potential for attracting a newer generation of drivers Service A key requirement for our fleet customers is knowing there is an available service infrastructure for the maintenance, repair, and availability of parts for our vehicles. We are building a strong network of dealers, a robust preventative maintenance program, as well as several levels of service to support fleet complexity, application, and duty cycles. Service is expected to be provided via a pay as you go model for direct purchase of the BEV truck or included in our bundled lease model. We have assembled what we believe is a nimble and adaptable service, maintenance, and parts solutions for our vehicles, which is expected to include the following options: • Electric vehicles have a system of sensors and controls that allow for precise monitoring of the vehicle and component operation performance. We intend to use this data to provide smart predictive maintenance, which will decrease downtime and costs by identifying a potential problem before it results in a breakdown. Preventative maintenance is expected to be customized to match duty cycle and fleet applications. • We plan to have the ability to provide over the air updates and software fixes when the vehicles are stopped. This can significantly reduce the time for repair, improve uptime, and continually monitor performance, efficiency, and overall utilization. • In cases where a customer has their own maintenance expertise and infrastructure, we plan to identify and provide certification of technicians and procedures for items that can be maintained at their shops. This could include procedures such as tire changes, wearable parts, chassis, and brake services. 16 • In cases where the customer does not have a maintenance infrastructure or for more complex items, we plan to utilize a dealer network for maintenance and warranty work. The network is expected to monitor day to day trip activity and incorporate support at the origin and destination for our truck routes. We also intend to support our partners with the latest diagnostic technologies like augmented reality and web-enabled video to support technicians for complex tasks or newly identified issues. • If a vehicle requires maintenance of a complex system or component such as the fuel cell, e-axle, or battery-pack, some of those items can be removed and replaced with limited downtime. This should allow us to repair the affected component in the background and minimize vehicle downtime. We are also planning to develop a network of trained technicians that can travel to a customer or service partner as necessary. We also expect to have dedicated vendor agreements to service and maintain a specific fleet on premise or close in proximity to the truck's domicile location. • Additionally, we plan to procure replacement parts, components, and aftermarket support supplies. These components and materials would be inventoried, warehoused and distributed by third party logistic providers currently engaged in supplying the Class 8 truck industry. We opened the Nikola training academy facility in December 2021 on our Phoenix, Arizona campus. The training team completed the first certification class in January 2022. Our training model will provide dealer technician training and certification on Nikola BEV and FCEV trucks. The current curriculum includes safety awareness, diagnostics, preventative maintenance, shop bay tooling, repair times and related technical competencies to support Class 8 vehicle services. Academy trainers have Class 8 industry experience, and an onsite dedicated service BEV truck is leveraged for the hands-on portion of certification. A portion of the facility will also be used to monitor fleets’ vehicle condition performance and alert service personnel in the event a vehicle transmits a proactive warning that may impact reliability. Dealer Network Through 2021, we have created a sales and service dealer network that, to date, has grown to 117 planned service center locations. Our dealers bring both over the road truck experience as well as power and infrastructure experience and complement our integrated solutions strategy. Our focus is on locations in key metropolitan areas and at major intersections of the interstate highway system across the U.S. Most major regional transportation hubs are covered today with our service and parts providers. The dealer-based repair shop facilities are expected to have Nikola certified technicians, as well as a mobile service network tailored to meet carrier and fleet asset requirements. As the network continues to grow with new dealer locations and territories, future service solutions can be engineered and deployed to cover fleet customers' locations or asset domicile requirements. Customers and Reservations Target Customers We target large Class 8 fleet customers with established sustainability goals, as well as fleets operating along dedicated routes that are located in regions offering strong incentives for developing hydrogen infrastructure and/or delivering zero-emission vehicles. Most of our truck sales are expected to occur through our dealer network, in which we will sell trucks directly to the dealer. The dealers will enter into direct sales or leasing arrangements with the end-user customers. BEV Customer Strategy The BEV truck is designed for short and medium-haul applications, making it ideal for urban metro, inner-city, local delivery, port operations, and drayage applications. Our goal is to first target fleet customers to establish early market share and strengthen brand identity. For BEV trucks, we expect that early U.S. sales will be in states such as California or New York where incentive programs already exist. FCEV Customer Strategy For the FCEV truck, we are planning to develop and construct initial hydrogen stations in Arizona and California. Therefore, early customers will likely be located in these states, or have extensive transportation routes within or between them. We also intend to target dedicated fleets with either nationwide or significant regional distribution networks and dedicated route networks (i.e., where trucks operate between two fixed points, e.g., production plant and distribution hub) along highly trafficked freight corridors. We believe this strategy allows for gradual, strategic, and capital-efficient development of the hydrogen infrastructure required to support FCEV trucks in operation. We intend to expand the FCEV offering to the entire Class 8 truck market once the fueling infrastructure is sufficiently developed. 17 Recent Customer Developments In 2021 and early 2022, we entered several letters of intent or memoranda of understanding with customers for both our BEV and FCEV trucks. These agreements are non-binding and are subject to successful customer pilot testing, including up-time and reliability. Upon completion of successful pilot testing, we expect to receive purchase orders from these customers directly or through our dealer network. BEV Through January 2022, we have entered into letters of intent or memorandums of understanding with Total Transportation Services, or TTSI, Hamburg Port Authority, Tri-Eagle Sales, Heniff Transportation Systems, USA Truck, Saia LTL Freight, and Covenant Logistics, either directly or through our dealer network. These non-binding agreements in total currently represent orders or leases of up to 375 Nikola Tre BEV trucks. There can be no assurances that these letters of intent or memoranda of understanding will result in sales or leases of vehicles. FCEV Through January 2022, we have entered into letters of intent with TTSI, PGT Trucking, and Covenant Logistics, either directly or through our dealer network. These non-binding agreements in total currently represent orders or leases of up to 210 Nikola Tre FCEV trucks. There can be no assurances that these letters of intent will result in sales or leases of vehicles. Legacy Customer Reservations Our legacy non-binding cancellable reservations for large corporate, small fleets, and individuals potentially represent more than two years of production. This list includes reservations from individuals or small fleets with indications of interest for 100 trucks or less, which represent approximately 47% of our total FCEV reservations. These individuals or small fleets may not receive FCEV trucks until the density of the hydrogen station network is sufficient for their re-fueling needs, which may not occur until approximately 2030 or later. Customer Milestones Delivery of First Tre BEV In December 2021, we delivered the first two Tre BEV trucks to TTSI for pilot testing. Assuming satisfactory completion of the BEV truck trials and subject to TTSI obtaining certain government funding, up to 30 BEV trucks are projected to be sold in late 2022. Delivery of First Tre FCEV In January 2022, the first two Nikola Tre FCEV Alphas were driven from our headquarters to Anheuser-Busch, or AB, a journey of approximately 350 miles. AB began a three-month pilot by placing the two Nikola Tre alpha FCEVs into daily service within the brewer’s Southern California network. This pilot is an important step for both companies to refine the production specifications and features of the Nikola vehicles and to demonstrate the viability of fuel cell trucking and hydrogen refilling in beverage hauling. Partnerships and Suppliers We believe that our business model is validated and supported by world-class strategic partnerships that have the potential to significantly reduce execution risk, improve commercialization timeline, and provide long-term competitive benefits. These world-class partners have accelerated our internal development, growth, and learning. Our partnership philosophy is a recognition that the world's toughest challenges require bold solutions and a collaborative effort from multiple parties. Our goal is to provide zero-emission solutions to the transportation sector and to usher in next-generation grid solutions. With the help of our partners, we believe our chances of success are greatly improved. We are inspired by the knowledge that if we are successful, the whole world wins. The following is a list of the partners who have chosen to embark upon this journey with us. With their help, we plan to drive out emissions from the transportation sector. Co-Development Partners Iveco Iveco is a subsidiary of CNH Industrial, which designs, manufactures and distributes under the Iveco brand a wide range of light, medium and heavy commercial vehicles and off-road trucks with over 163,000 units and 146,000 units sold in 2019 and 18 2020, respectively. Iveco with its affiliates and joint ventures, has significant manufacturing presence in Europe, as well as production facilities in Asia, Africa and Latin America. Iveco can provide technical support in close proximity to their customers around the world. Iveco is the European market leader in CNG/LNG alternative propulsion technologies for trucks. During fiscal year 2019, we entered into an agreement with Iveco under which it provides advisory services, including project coordination, drawings and documentation support, engineering support, vehicle integration, product validation support, purchasing, and the implementation of the Iveco World Class Manufacturing Methodology. Iveco and its affiliate, FPT Industrial, S.p.A., provide engineering and manufacturing expertise to industrialize our BEV and FCEV trucks. In Europe, we established a joint venture with Iveco, and together, we are jointly developing cab-over BEV and FCEV trucks for sale in the European market. In North America, we will be responsible for manufacturing and production at our greenfield facility in Coolidge, Arizona. • North America Engineering and Production Alliance: Iveco agreed to provide $100.0 million of engineering and production support, which has been fully utilized by us, and access to intellectual property valued at $50.0 million to help bring our trucks to the North American market. We believe this alliance significantly de-risks our operational execution by leveraging the expertise and capabilities of one of the world's leading commercial vehicle manufacturers, and we retain 100% of the North American business as a result. • Europe Joint Venture: Our 50/50 joint venture with Iveco leverages Iveco's engineering expertise and existing production and sales/service footprint. We believe this joint venture allows us to accelerate penetration into the attractive European market while minimizing execution risk and optimizing capital allocation and our management bandwidth. In addition to the manufacturing and production expertise, we believe one of the benefits of this partnership is our ability to leverage Iveco's existing assortment of parts, thereby decreasing our purchasing expenses, and accelerating the vehicle validation process. Bosch Bosch is a leading global supplier of technology and services to automotive, industrial, energy, building technology, and consumer end-markets with approximately 400,000 employees and revenues of approximately 78.8 billion euros in 2021. Bosch will supply their latest e-machines for our electric truck e-axles as well as state-of-the-art inverters. We are also working with Bosch on the fuel cell power module assembly utilizing Bosch components. We entered into a Fuel Cell Supply Framework Agreement with Bosch, whereby we committed to purchase certain component requirements for fuel cell power modules, or FCPMs, from Bosch beginning on June 1, 2023 until December 30, 2030. We also entered into an FCPM Design and Manufacturing License Agreement with Bosch, whereby Bosch granted us a non-exclusive and non-transferable license to intellectual property that will be used to adapt, further develop and assemble FCPMs provided by Bosch for use in the production of our FCEV trucks. OPAL Fuels We are partnering with OPAL Fuels on the development, construction, and operation of hydrogen refueling stations in North America and the use of renewable natural gas in hydrogen production. TC Energy We signed a joint development agreement with TC Energy for co-development of large-scale production hubs. A key objective of the collaboration is to establish hubs near highly traveled truck corridors that will provide hydrogen to fuel our FCEV trucks within the next five years. Certain Suppliers Battery and Battery Systems • Romeo Power: Romeo is an energy storage technology company focused on designing and manufacturing lithium-ion battery modules and packs for commercial electric vehicles. Romeo provides us with battery modules for the battery pack designed by Nikola and integrated into our trucks. • Proterra: Proterra is a designer and manufacturer of zero-emission electric transit vehicles and EV technology solutions for commercial applications. We have entered into a multi-year battery supply agreement with Proterra 19 to provide us a dual source strategy. Proterra product, which includes the battery modules, cells, and pack, is expected to be incorporated in our BEV and FCEV trucks. • LG Energy: LG Energy Solution, Ltd. will provide battery cells for our trucks beginning in 2022 through 2029. Other Truck Components • FPT Industrial: FPT Industrial is a brand of Iveco Group, dedicated to the design, production and sale of powertrains for on-road and off-road vehicles. FPT provides support and production for our e-axles. • EDAG: EDAG is a global engineering service provider to the commercial vehicle industry. EDAG provides support for our cab and chassis engineering services. • WABCO: WABCO is a leading global supplier of braking control components and air management systems to medium- and heavy-duty trucks. WABCO provides us with safety technologies including electronic braking systems, as well as traction and stability control technologies. • MAHLE: Mahle is a leading global supplier of thermal management systems for heavy-duty trucks. Mahle provides us with thermal management system technologies. Hydrogen Infrastructure • Hanwha: Hanwha is a world leader in renewable energy and solar panel manufacturing and is partnering with us to assist in obtaining clean energy for our hydrogen fueling network. Hanwha Q Cells is our exclusive solar panel provider (to third-party solar farm developers), which we expect will help generate the clean electricity critical to the production of renewable hydrogen. • Nel: We have partnered with Nel for the build out of our on-site gaseous hydrogen production and fuel dispensing stations. Nel is an industry leader in the manufacturing of electrolyzers. Manufacturing and Production U.S. Production Facility In 2019, we acquired an approximately 400-acre parcel of real property in Coolidge, Arizona, which is located about 50 miles south of Phoenix, Arizona. In July 2020, we broke ground on Phase 1 of the U.S. manufacturing facility in Coolidge, Arizona. Phase 0.5 of our Coolidge manufacturing facility was completed in 2021. Currently, build out of the Phase 1 plant construction is on track to be completed at the end of the first quarter of 2022. Phase 1—Low Volume Production—approximately 2,500 units per year: • Low-volume production capacity (up to approximately 2,500 units per year) • Trial production started in the second half of 2021 • Estimated capital expenditure for Phase 1 plant construction: approximately $130 million • Start of production for Tre BEV trucks expected by the end of the first quarter of 2022 Phase 2—High Volume Production—approximately 20,000 units per year (two shifts per day): • Expect to begin expansion of the assembly hall in the first quarter of 2022 • High-volume production capacity (increases up to approximately 20,000 units per year by 2024) • Estimated incremental capital expenditure to complete Phase 2: approximately $135 million Phase 3—Full Plant Capacity—up to 45,000 units per year (two shifts per day): • Scaled capacity increases to full plant production (up to approximately 45,000 units per year) • Expect to start local fuel cell power module production in the second of half of 2023 • Potential estimated incremental capital expenditure to complete Phase 3 plant construction, including a paint shop and in process equipment: up to $340 million 20 • Start of production for Nikola Tre FCEV planned in the second half of 2023 European Production Our joint venture with Iveco provides us with manufacturing capacity to build trucks primarily for the European market. The joint venture manufacturing plant has the capacity to produce 2,000 units per year based on two shifts. Development Timeline The development timeline for our trucks has accelerated upon entering a production alliance with Iveco. This partnership provides us the benefit of leveraging Iveco's expertise, and the Class 8 S-WAY truck platform in the design, development, testing and validation of the BEV truck. By focusing initial development efforts on the BEV truck, we were able to accelerate our go-to-market strategy by approximately 1-2 years. BEV Development Upcoming key milestones in the commercialization of the Nikola Tre BEV truck are as follows: • TTSI on-road validation and mile accumulation started in the fourth quarter of 2021 and is expected to be completed in the first half of 2022 • Start of production expected by end of the first quarter of 2022 • Hamburg Port Authority pilot planned for the second quarter of 2022 with trucks built in Ulm, Germany FCEV Development Key milestones in the commercialization of the Nikola Tre FCEV (North America) trucks are as follows: • Testing of Nikola Tre alpha trucks in the U.S. in the fourth quarter of 2021 • Alpha customer fleet and on-road validation in the first quarter of 2022 with AB • Testing of beta trucks in U.S. expected in the second half of 2022 • Beta customer fleet and on-road validation and mile accumulation expected in the first half of 2023 • Start of production in Coolidge, Arizona for sale into North American market expected in the second half of 2023 Key milestone in the commercialization of the Nikola Tre FCEV (Europe) is as follows: • Nikola Tre FCEV start of production at Iveco's facility in Ulm, Germany, for sale into the European market expected in 2024 Strategy Management Team Focused on Execution and Efficient Capital Allocation Given the capital-intensive nature of our business model, we believe that efficient capital allocation will be an important determinant of our long-term success. We believe our disciplined and creative approach to optimize capital allocation will allow us to execute on our ambitious business plan. Capital optimization measures include: • Our strategic partnerships with world-class automotive suppliers to develop leading next-generation powertrain technology. Our ability to leverage expertise from OEM and top-tier supplier brands has allowed us to accelerate the production of our product portfolio while decreasing development costs. Our joint venture with Iveco allows us to manufacture trucks, gain market share, and start generating revenue prior to building a greenfield manufacturing facility in Europe by utilizing Iveco's excess capacity. • Our multi-phased approach to building our greenfield production plant in the U.S., which we expect will allow us to produce up to approximately 2,500 units a year and generate revenue one full year before the completion of our fully scaled manufacturing facility. 21 • Our hydrogen fueling ecosystem, partnership approach and hydrogen station roll-out plans, which we expect will allow us to build stations in coordination with FCEV truck deliveries. We believe these plans can reduce the amount of outside capital needed during the buildout of our hydrogen station network. Capture Early Mover Advantage Given the speed at which the BEV and FCEV truck market is transforming, we have accelerated the production of our BEV truck to be early to market and we expect to generate revenue in 2022. By being one of the first movers in the North American market, we expect to capture customers and applicable zero-emission vehicle related incentives, including incentives available to those that are early adopters of BEV technology. Maintain Strategic Partnership Focus to Drive Execution Our position as a pioneer in the market has attracted global leaders across our supply chain, creating an extensive network for us to leverage. We believe the expertise and know-how of our partners broaden our executional capability, reduces time to market, and helps to solidify our technological leadership. In addition, we believe our relationships with certain leading suppliers and partners will also allow us to manufacture and deliver our products with high quality standards. For example, our partnership with Iveco provides us with flexibility, scalability, and speed to market, while product design and quality control are managed by our engineering team. Additionally, this partnership will allow us to enter the European market in a capital efficient manner, and years earlier than originally anticipated. By entering into strategic partnerships, we believe we can reduce execution risk and increase speed to market, which provides a critical advantage as we look to execute upon our vision. Leverage Hydrogen Station Dynamics to Transition Energy Future We believe that the hydrogen station network, and the production and distribution of hydrogen, will provide us with a competitive benefit that can drive sustained profitability and stockholder value over the long term. We believe that hydrogen-powered Class 8 trucks will be the product of choice in the medium- and long-haul markets. As OEMs begin to widely adopt hydrogen fuel cell technology, there will be a greater need for hydrogen distribution along key transportation routes, and we expect to be in a strong position to be a leading provider of hydrogen to commercial transportation companies. By enabling the world's leading heavy-duty hydrogen station network, we anticipate playing a major role in the energy transformation of the future. Continued Focus on Technological Innovations We intend to continue to attract top talent to further enhance our talent pool and drive technological innovations. Additionally, we plan to further enhance our battery and fuel cell related technology to achieve better performance and shorten charging and fueling time, while increasing the range of our product portfolio. Future Market Opportunities Autonomous Driving Our trucks can be designed with autonomous driving in mind, which may provide revenue to us in the future as well as potential cost savings to customers. Given the nature of our dedicated route customers, operating point-to-point interstate routes between our hydrogen stations, we believe our trucks can provide the perfect testing environment for further development and advancement of autonomous technology. When the various regulatory agencies have approved some level of autonomy, we intend to consider a partnership with one of the autonomous software leaders to deploy its technology on our vehicles. Autonomous driving represents significant incremental revenue opportunities for us as we could charge customers an additional fee for each mile driven autonomously. According to the U.S. Federal Motor Carrier Safety Association, in the U.S., truck drivers face total hours restrictions that do not allow them to operate their vehicles more than 11 hours a day. In Europe, drivers are generally restricted to 9 hours a day, according to the European Parliament. Autonomous driving may help achieve higher utilization by removing the limitations on how long a truck driver can operate. In addition to the incremental revenue opportunity for us and the potential cost savings available to fleet operators as a result of autonomous technology, we believe autonomy will significantly improve safety and asset utilization which would increase the revenue generating potential for both us and our customers. Energy Optimization The global energy mix is in transition with more than 60% of new capacity coming from renewable energy sources, based on the Global Market Outlook for Solar Power provided by SolarPower Europe. The transition away from fossil fuel-based energy generation, such as coal, natural gas, etc., is beneficial to the environment, but is not without its challenges. As 22 renewable energy makes up a greater share of the energy mix, daily energy production becomes more volatile, and the energy production curve becomes less predictable. With fossil-fuel based energy, demand peaks are typically addressed by burning natural gas in turbine-based power plants. With certain types of renewable energy, one does not have similar control over energy production, and instead the production curve is determined based on the daily solar cycle and weather patterns, which means daily energy production becomes more volatile. This increased volatility creates a distorted energy production curve, resulting in both predictable (e.g., the sun comes out every day) and unpredictable (e.g., the wind blows stronger on some days compared to others) surplus energy production capacity. This surplus energy typically goes unused, and in extreme cases must be traded away at zero or even negative revenue to the utility provider. In select cases, hydrogen production can be used to balance the grid by taking excess energy production and storing it for future use. We believe we can also help balance the grid by allowing utilities and power providers to interrupt hydrogen station electricity consumption during peak demand. Our ability to turn excess energy into hydrogen may offer operators and energy providers the ability to increase revenue by selling us otherwise wasted off-peak generating capacity. Additionally, the ability to store unused energy in the form of hydrogen reduces the need for peak power generating plants that are typically costly to build and operate, and that historically are heavily underutilized. Instead, we could potentially build excess hydrogen storage on-site, then sell excess hydrogen back to the grid during periods of peak demand. Research and Development Our research and development activities take place out of our headquarters facility in Phoenix, Arizona, our manufacturing facility in Coolidge, Arizona, and at our development partners' facilities located around the world. The primary areas of focus for research and development by us and our partners include, but are not limited to: • fuel cell; • battery systems; • vehicle controls; • infotainment; • e-axle and inverter; • functional safety; • advanced driver assistance systems, or ADAS; • energy storage; and • hydrogen production, storage, and dispensing. Most of our current activities are focused on the research and development of our BEV and FCEV trucks. We work closely with our partners to develop truck platforms and bring them to market. We have purchased equipment that will aid in the development, validation and testing of our powertrain, battery and fuel cell related technology. We expect our research and development expenses to increase for the foreseeable future as we continue to invest in research and development activities to expand our product offering for both the North American and the European markets. Intellectual Property Our success depends in part upon our ability to protect our core technology and intellectual property. We protect our intellectual property rights, both in the U.S. and abroad, through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection, as well as confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and consultants. We seek to control access to, and distribution of, our proprietary information through non-disclosure agreements with our vendors and business partners. Unpatented research, development, know-how, and engineering skills make a vital contribution to our business, and we pursue patent protection when we believe it is possible and consistent with our overall strategy for safeguarding intellectual property. We own or co-own intellectual property, including patents, patent applications, trademarks, and trademark applications in the U.S. and various foreign countries. Our patents and patent applications are directed to, among other things, vehicle and 23 vehicle powertrain (including battery and fuel cell technology), hydrogen fueling, off-road vehicle, and personal watercraft technologies. Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) Our core mission is to combat climate change through transforming transportation with clean technology and clean energy solutions. BEV and FCEV trucks help tackle the climate crisis and health impacts caused by traditional combustion technologies. While our trucks are a part of the environmental solution, we are building a more comprehensive approach than just emissions from the tailpipe. It includes the emission and material lifecycles of our truck and energy products for sustainable practices for sourcing of raw material through production, use, and end of life. We have attracted a talented workforce due in part to our mission and strong focus on human capital management practices and policies. We have developed and actively evolve what we believe are best in class programs to attract, develop and retain our personnel, which we believe encourages a diverse, equitable and inclusive workforce. Our employee engagement, measured three times a year, has consistently exceeded external benchmarks. Our social programs are also broad to encompass not only our employees but our products and supply chain. Safety is critical in both our operations and in our products at all phases of production, testing and validation, and in-use. Having a strong ESG program is core to our values and mission and therefore we are establishing processes and committees designed to ensure board and executive guidance, and input and oversight of our strategy, programs and performance. We strive to be a leader in corporate responsibility and demonstrate our values through responsible business practices. Our corporate governance is guided by a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, and supplemented by an Ethics and Whistleblower program available to all employees to report concerns about fraud, ethical misconduct, harassment, misappropriation of assets, or questionable financial reporting practices. Our People Overview Our strategy requires the development and integration of advanced technologies and their successful commercialization in North America and in Europe. Execution of this strategy depends on our ability to attract, develop and retain key employees and members of our management team. The skills, experience and knowledge of our employees equip us to achieve our operational and strategic objectives. Governance Our board of directors and its compensation committee oversee our workforce policies, programs and initiatives. As noted in its charter, our compensation committee is responsible for periodically reviewing and approving employee programs and initiatives, including retention and succession strategies, which is intended to ensure that our board of directors and its committees guide how we manage our workforce in a way that aligns with our values. Our management team designs and administers all employment matters, such as recruiting and hiring, onboarding and training, compensation and rewards, performance management and professional development. We continuously evaluate and enhance our internal policies, processes and practices to increase employee engagement and productivity. Workforce We have a highly skilled and experienced workforce with more than 80% of our senior leaders each having over 20 years of experience in their respective fields. As of December 31, 2021, we had approximately 900 employees, the majority of whom are located in the Phoenix, Arizona metropolitan area. During fiscal year 2021, we doubled the number of employees while maintaining a voluntary turnover rate well below comparable industry norms in 2021. We actively seek to manage internal talent mobility through promotions and new assignments to create a high-performing employee base with diverse experiences. More than 16% of our employees assumed larger responsibilities in connection with a promotion during fiscal year 2021, thereby enhancing their skills, growing their careers and celebrating their performance. We are committed to developing our people to meet our business needs and provide significant on the job experiences to develop and equip them to design and manufacture innovative and technologically advanced vehicles and products. We have implemented methodologies to manage individual performance, development and feedback. Additionally, we hold regular team and company-wide townhalls to provide employees with ongoing exposure to leaders across the company, key business 24 developments, and status of product and project milestones. These forums enable employees to learn more about our business beyond their immediate day to day roles while providing an opportunity for them to ask questions and seek answers to any concerns. We value and appreciate the distinct contributions every employee makes to our growth and success. Approximately 65% of our workforce is ethnically or gender diverse, which reflects an increase of 15% from the prior year. Additionally, our female representation grew by approximately 25% from the prior year. We strive to cultivate a shared culture and mission that celebrates each person at every level. We embrace the diversity of our team members, customers, and stakeholders, including their unique backgrounds, experiences, perspectives and talents. We are committed to providing an environment where human dignity prevails. Every person has an equal opportunity for hire, assignment, and advancement without regard to race, color, religion or belief, national origin, sex, childbirth or pregnancy related conditions, age, genetic information, sexual orientation, gender identity and/or expression, disability, covered military or veteran status, or any other status protected by applicable federal, state, or local law at all times from recruitment through employment and promotion. Culture We invest considerable time and resources to see that our values permeate all aspects of our operations and decision-making, and that our policies and practices reflect our commitment to them. Any employee with concerns related to our ethics and integrity, or who wishes to report incidents of fraud or abuse, may call an external hotline to register those concerns anonymously without fear of attribution or retribution. We are also committed to the health, safety and well-being of those who work for us. We provide our employees and their families with access to a variety of innovative, flexible and convenient health and wellness programs, including benefits that provide protection and security so they can have peace of mind with events that may require time away from work or that may impact their financial well-being, and that offer choice where possible so they can customize their benefits to meet their needs and the needs of their families. Additionally, we commit significant time and resources to a broad range of safety training, beginning with an employee’s initial onboarding to ensure that she or he is equipped to meet the requirements of her or his position. We strive to provide reasonable accommodation for qualified employees with disabilities and employees whose religious belief, practice, or observance conflicts with a workplace requirement. We provide a robust and holistic rewards program to meet the needs of our employees and drive results in our business. We have designed, and will modify as necessary, our compensation and benefits program to attract, retain, incent and reward deeply talented and qualified employees who share our philosophy and desire to work towards achieving our strategic and operational goals. In addition to salary, our program provides stock awards, a 401(k) plan with employer match, heavily subsidized healthcare and insurance benefits, health savings accounts, paid time off, family leave, family care resources, flexible work schedules, employee assistance programs, and on-site services such as a fitness center and cafe. Beyond our broad-based stock award programs, we have used targeted equity-based grants with vesting conditions to facilitate the future performance and retention of key people with critical roles, skills and experience. None of our employees are represented by an external employee organization such as a union, works council or employee association, and we believe our relations with our employees are favorable. We actively seek to comply with all local, state and federal employment laws and we monitor current and emerging labor and human capital management risks and mitigate exposure to those risks. Government Regulation We operate in an industry that is subject to extensive environmental regulation, which has become more stringent over time. The laws and regulations to which we are subject govern, among others, water use; air emissions; use of recycled materials; energy sources; the storage, handling, treatment, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials; the protection of the environment, natural resources and endangered species; and the remediation of environmental contamination. We have been required to obtain and comply with the terms and conditions of multiple environmental permits, many of which are difficult and costly to obtain and could be subject to legal challenges. Compliance with such laws and regulations at an international, regional, national, provincial and local level is an important aspect of our ability to continue our operations. Environmental standards applicable to us are established by the laws and regulations of the countries in which we operate, standards adopted by regulatory agencies and the permits and licenses. Each of these sources is subject to periodic modifications and increasingly stringent requirements. Violations of these laws, regulations or permits and licenses may result in substantial civil and criminal fines, penalties, and possibly orders to cease the violating operations or to conduct or pay for corrective works. In some instances, violations may also result in the suspension or revocation of permits and licenses. 25 Vehicle Safety and Testing Regulation Our vehicles are subject to, and are designed to comply with, numerous regulatory requirements established by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, or NHTSA, including applicable U.S. federal motor vehicle safety standards, or FMVSS. As a manufacturer, we must self-certify that the vehicles meet or are exempt from all applicable FMVSS before a vehicle can be imported into or sold in the U.S. There are numerous FMVSS that apply to our vehicles. Examples of these requirements include: • Electronic Stability Control —performance and equipment requirements on heavy-duty vehicles to reduce crashes caused by rollover or by directional loss-of-control; • Air Brake Systems —performance and equipment requirements of air brake systems on heavy-duty vehicles to ensure safe braking performance under normal and emergency conditions; • Electric Vehicle Safety —limitations on electrolyte spillage, battery retention, and avoidance of electric shock following specified crash tests; • Flammability of Interior Materials —burn resistance requirements for materials used in the occupant compartment; and • Seat Belt Assemblies and Anchorages —performance and equipment requirements to provide effective occupant protection by restraint and reducing the probability of failure. The following FMVSS do not apply to our vehicles, but we are incorporating the applicable components of the standards for additional safety performance: • Tire Pressure Monitoring System —performance requirements to warn the driver of significant under-inflation of tires resulting in safety problems; • Roof Crush Resistance —strength requirements for the occupant roof to prevent crushing of the roof into the occupant compartment in rollover crashes; • Electromagnetic Compatibility and Interference— electrical noise requirements to prevent the high voltage wiring and components from interfering with the daily operation of other electronic devices; and • Crash Tests for High-Voltage and Hydrogen Fuel System Integrity— preventing electric shock from high voltage systems and fires that result from fuel spillage during and after motor vehicle crashes. We are also planning to engineer and build vehicles to be in compliance with the Canadian Motor Vehicle Safety Standards, or CMVSS, which consist of some requirements that are similar to FMVSS. In addition to the FMVSS requirements for heavy-duty vehicles, we also design our vehicles to meet the requirements of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, or FMCSA, which has requirements for the truck and fleet owners. We also design to meet the requirements set forth in the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations, or FMCSR, pertaining to the safety of the driver during operation of the vehicle. There are numerous FMCSR that apply to our vehicles. Examples of these requirements include: • Step, Handhold and Deck Requirements —performance and equipment requirements to enhance the safety for entry, egress, and back of cab access of a heavy-duty vehicle. • Auxiliary Lamps —performance and placement requirements for lamps in addition to lamps that meet the requirements of FMVSS 108 Lamps, Reflective Devices and Associated Equipment. • Speedometer —performance and accuracy requirement for equipment indicating the vehicle speed. This includes both digital and analog displays. We are also required to comply with other NHTSA requirements and federal laws administered by NHTSA, including early warning reporting requirements regarding warranty claims, field reports, death and injury reports, foreign recalls, and owner's manual requirements. The vehicles we will offer for sale in Europe are subject to United Nations Economic Commission Europe, or UNECE, safety testing regulations. Many of those regulations, referred to as European Union Whole Vehicle Type Approval, or WVTA, are different from the federal motor vehicle safety standards applicable in the U.S. and may require redesign and/or retesting. 26 Our BEV and FCEV trucks are designed to meet specific NHTSA type approvals and we will commence with testing our vehicles for the WVTA and following European type approval-process to assure compliance with the UNECE requirements. We have found there are UNECE compliance requirements and UN Global Technical Regulations, or GTR, applicable to heavy-duty vehicles in Europe, which have not been developed for heavy-duty vehicles by NHTSA or FMCSA. We have implemented the UNECE standards for additional safety during driving operation. The following are some UNECE standards and GTR applied to our BEV and FCEV trucks. • Electromagnetic Compatibility & Interference —performance requirements for the prevention and interference of electromagnetic radiation which may cause disturbances in the drivability of the vehicles and other vehicles in the area. • Lane Departure Warning System —performance and testing requirements for a system that warns the driver of an unintentional drift of the vehicle out of its travel lane. • Electric Vehicle Safety— performance and testing requirements for BEVs during in-use and post-crash. • Hydrogen Fuel Cell Vehicle Safety —performance and testing requirements for FCEV during in-use and post-crash. Our BEV and FCEV trucks consist of many electronic and automated components and systems. Our vehicles are designed to comply with the International Standards Organization's, or ISO, Functional Safety Standard. This standard addresses the integration of electrical systems and software and identifies the possible hazards caused by malfunctioning behavior of the safety-related electrical or electronic systems, including the interaction of these systems. EPA and CARB GHG Emissions & Agency Approvals The U.S. Clean Air Act requires that we obtain a Certificate of Conformity issued by the EPA and a California Executive Order issued by CARB concerning emissions for our vehicles. A Certificate of Conformity is required for vehicles sold in states covered by the Clean Air Act's standards and an Executive Order is required for vehicles sold in states that have sought and received a waiver from the EPA to utilize California standards. CARB sets the California standards for emissions control for certain regulated pollutants for new vehicles and engines sold in California. States that have adopted the California standards as approved by EPA also recognize the Executive Order for sales of vehicles. There are currently four states which have adopted the California standard for heavy-duty vehicles. CARB has implemented a Zero Emissions Powertrain rule in which manufacturers may optionally certify their powertrain. Beginning in 2023, vehicles will be required to have a certified powertrain in order to qualify for funding from the Hybrid and Zero-emission Truck and Bus Voucher Incentive Program, or HVIP. We anticipate certifying our powertrain to this standard beginning with our 2023 model year BEV. The GHG Rule was incorporated into the Clean Air Act on August 9, 2011. Since our vehicles have zero-emissions, we are required to seek an EPA Certificate of Conformity for the GHG Rule, and a CARB Executive Order for the CARB Heavy Duty Zero Emissions Vehicle Rule. We received the Certificate of Conformity followed by an Executive Order for sales of our BEV during 2021. Battery Safety and Testing Regulation Our vehicles are designed to ISO standards for electrically-propelled vehicles in vehicle operational safety specifications and connecting to an external power supply. Additionally, we are incorporating other ISO battery system standards in our vehicles. Some of these standards include: • Conductive Charging —for on board charge electromagnetic requirements; • Battery Pack Enclosure Protection —degrees of protection of the electrical equipment within an enclosure from the effects due to the ingress of water; and • Testing Lithium-ion Traction Battery Packs and Systems —safety performance requirements during a variety of testing, such as vibration, thermal cycling, overcharge, and loss of thermal control. Our battery pack conforms with mandatory regulations governing the transport of "dangerous goods," which includes lithium-ion batteries that may present a risk in transportation. The governing regulations, which are issued by the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, or PHMSA, are based on the UN Recommendations on the Safe Transport of 27 Dangerous Goods Model Regulations, and related UN Manual Tests and Criteria. The regulations vary by mode of transportation when these items are shipped by ocean vessel, rail, truck, or by air. We are designing our battery packs to meet the compliance requirements of the UN Manual of Tests and Criteria demonstrating our ability to ship the vehicles and battery packs by any transportation method. These tests include: • Altitude simulation —simulating air transport; • Thermal cycling —assessing cell and battery seal integrity; • Vibration —simulating vibration during transport; • Shock —simulating possible impacts during transport; • External short circuit —simulating an external short circuit; and • Overcharge —evaluating the ability of a rechargeable battery to withstand overcharging. The cells in our battery packs are composed mainly of lithium-ion. In addition, our battery packs include packaging for the lithium-ion cells. This packaging includes trace amounts of various hazardous chemicals whose use, storage and disposal is regulated under federal law. GHG Emissions Credits - U.S. Environmental Protection Agency In connection with the delivery and placement into service of our vehicles under the GHG Rule, we will earn tradable credits that under current laws and regulations can be sold. Under the EPA's GHG Rule, each BEV earns a credit multiplier of 4.5 and each FCEV earns a credit multiplier of 5.5 for use in the calculation of emission credits. Commercial vehicle manufacturers are required to ensure they meet the nitrogen oxide emission standard for each type of vehicle produced. This emission standard continues to lower the emission requirement over time, increasing the difficulty for conventional diesel vehicles to meet the standard. Until technology catches up for commercial vehicles, manufacturers of diesel trucks will need to purchase GHG credits to cover their emission deficit. The GHG Rule provides the opportunity for the sale of excess credits to other manufacturers who apply such credits to comply with these regulatory requirements. Furthermore, the regulation does not limit the number of BEV and FCEV credits sold within the same commercial vehicle categories. GHG Emissions Credits - California Air Resources Board California also has a GHG emissions standard which follows very closely to the EPA GHG Emissions Standard. The delivery and placement into service of our zero-emission vehicles in California under the GHG Rule will earn us tradable credits that can be sold. Under CARB GHG regulations, each BEV will also earn a credit multiplier of 4.5 and each FCEV will earn a credit multiplier of 5.5 for use in the calculation of emission credits. Commercial vehicle manufacturers are required to ensure they meet the nitrogen oxide emission standard for each type of vehicle produced. This emission standard continues to lower the emission requirement over time, increasing the difficulty for conventional diesel vehicles to meet the standard. Until technology catches up for commercial vehicles, manufacturers of diesel trucks will need to purchase GHG credits to cover their emission deficit. The California timeline for reaching very low GHG emissions is more aggressive than the EPA. Commercial vehicle manufacturers will look to cover their emission deficits first for California. The GHG Rule provides an opportunity for the sale of excess credits to other manufacturers who apply such credits to comply with these regulatory requirements. Furthermore, the regulation does not limit the number of BEV and FCEV credits sold within the same commercial vehicle categories. Examples of other potential incentive and grant programs that either we or our customers can apply for include: • Low Carbon Fuel Standard — The Low Carbon Fuel Standard was initially developed in California and is quickly gaining traction in other jurisdictions around the world. The goal is to reduce the well-to-wheel carbon intensity of fuels by providing both mandated reduction targets as well as tradeable/sellable credits. • Purchase Incentives — Both California and New York have active programs that provide "cash on the hood" incentives to customers that purchase zero-emission vehicles. In California, the Hybrid and Zero-Emission Truck and Bus Voucher Incentive Project incentives reach as high as $165,000 for a Class 8 BEV and $315,000 for a Class 8 FCEV, and for the New York Truck Voucher Incentive Program NYTVIP, as high as $185,000 for a Class 8 BEV. Other states are considering developing similar programs. 28 • Grant Programs — Government entities at all levels from federal, including DOE, state, (for example, CARB), local (for example, North Texas Council of Governments), have grant programs designed to increase and accelerate the development and deployment of zero-emission vehicles and infrastructure technologies. Strategic Collaborations Commercial Letter with Nimbus, a Bosch entity On March 2, 2020, we entered into a Commercial Letter Agreement with Nimbus, or the Nimbus Commercial Letter Agreement. Under the Nimbus Commercial Letter Agreement, we may select an autonomous driving software and hardware package to be used on our trucks from any company, but we agreed to use Nimbus' affiliates' autonomous driving components on our autonomy-equipped trucks, subject to certain pricing, quality, functionality, reliability deliverability and availability conditions. Pursuant to the Nimbus Commercial Letter Agreement, we are obligated to receive a quantity of services, including inverter and fuel cell power module development and system integration services, that result in a minimum payment to Nimbus and its affiliates. We also agreed to negotiate in good faith toward a supply agreement with Nimbus, or an affiliate of Nimbus, for inverter development, fuel cell power module development and part supply. If Nimbus is not able to meet certain product specifications, delivery timelines, production quantities, efficiencies, pricing and prototypes within 30 days of receipt of a project proposal from us, after which time, we may source inverters from other suppliers. European Alliance Agreement with CNHI/Iveco On February 28, 2020, we entered into the Amended and Restated European Alliance Agreement with Iveco and, solely with respect to sections 9.5 and 16.18, CNHI, or the European Alliance Agreement, whereby us and CNHI/Iveco agreed to establish an entity for the purposes of developing and manufacturing BEV and FCEV trucks in Europe. Pursuant to the European Alliance Agreement, we will each contribute equal amounts of cash and in-kind contributions necessary for each party to subscribe to 50% of the capital stock of the entity contemplated by the agreement, and the entity will be funded in accordance with the business plan through the contributions made by each party. CNHI shall also have the right to negotiate a license to use certain of our intellectual property in Europe for applications outside the entity. Such entity, Nikola Iveco Europe Gmbh, or Nikola Iveco JV, was established in April 2020. On April 9, 2020, a series of agreements was entered into among us, Iveco and Nikola Iveco JV, including an Iveco Technology License Agreement, a Nikola Technology License Agreement, a European Supply Agreement and a North America Supply Agreement. Under the Iveco Technology License Agreement, Iveco granted Nikola Iveco JV a nonexclusive, royalty-free license under Iveco IP to deploy, through the term of the European Alliance Agreement, BEV and FCEV trucks in Europe. Under the Nikola Technology License Agreement, we granted Nikola Iveco JV a nonexclusive, royalty-bearing license under our intellectual property to deploy, through the term of the European Alliance Agreement, BEV and FCEV trucks in Europe. Under the European Supply Agreement, Nikola Iveco JV was granted certain exclusive rights by Iveco to produce and supply BEV and FCEV trucks to Iveco in Europe, and under the North American Supply Agreement, Nikola Iveco JV was granted certain exclusive rights by us to produce and supply BEV and FCEV trucks to us in North America. The European Supply Agreement runs concurrent with the term of the European Alliance Agreement. The North America Supply Agreement terminates upon the earlier of December 31, 2024 or the occurrence of certain other events, including two years following the date we begin manufacturing BEV and FCEV trucks in North America. The initial term of the European Alliance Agreement expires on December 31, 2030, with automatic renewals of ten year periods unless terminated by either party with written notice received by the non-terminating party no later than December 31, 2029 for the initial term and no later than the end of the 7th year of any subsequent term. CNHI Services Agreement with CNHI/Iveco On September 3, 2019, we entered into the CNHI Services Agreement with CNHI and Iveco in conjunction with our Series D preferred stock financing. As a result of this agreement, we issued to Iveco 25,661,448 shares of Series D preferred stock in exchange for a license valued at $50.0 million pursuant to an S-WAY Platform and Product Sharing Agreement, $100.0 million in-kind services, pursuant to a Technical Assistance Service Agreement, or the Technical Assistance Service Agreement, and $100.0 million in cash. The CNHI Services Agreement may be terminated by mutual agreement of the parties, or at the election of a non-breaching party upon the breach by the other of the CNHI Services Agreement, the S-WAY Platform Product Sharing Agreement, or the Technical Assistance Service Agreement if such breach has not been cured within thirty days of receipt of written notice. The CNHI Services Agreement may also be terminated upon bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings against us or CNHI/Iveco. Under the S-WAY Platform and Product Sharing Agreement, we were granted a nonexclusive license to Iveco's intellectual property, technology and designs related to its latest European heavy-duty truck platform, or the S-WAY. The 29 license does not contain any power train related components, as we plan to use our proprietary electric drive system, but does include access to the semi-articulated and articulated versions of the S-WAY in the 4x2, 6x2 and 6x4 variants. The license also gives us access to Iveco's parts and suppliers list related to the S-WAY and bears a seven-year royalty from the start of production of 1.25% on FCEV trucks and 1.00% on BEV trucks that incorporate a material portion of such licensed technology. This license agreement will continue in effect until terminated by mutual agreement of the parties, a non-curable breach has occurred or a bankruptcy related event of either party. Master Agreement with Anheuser-Busch On February 22, 2018, we entered into the Master Agreement—Tractors with AB, or the Master Agreement, whereby AB agreed to lease from us hydrogen fueled tractors and related equipment to be used by AB for transportation and related services at certain AB locations. Pursuant to the Master Agreement, we will provide maintenance and repairs for the leased equipment. The term of the Master Agreement commenced January 1, 2018, and remains available to cover future leases between the parties unless terminated by either party if either party defaults and fails to cure such default within thirty days, or unless terminated by AB with three hundred sixty days prior written notice to us. Supply Agreement with Nel On June 28, 2018, we entered into the Supply Agreement for electrolyzers with Nel, or the Supply Agreement, whereby we agreed to purchase electrolyzers from Nel. Pursuant to the Supply Agreement, we will source electrolyzers and station equipment exclusively from Nel in connection with the development and implementation of on-site hydrogen production and dispensing stations. Our obligation to source electrolyzers from Nel expires on the date upon which enough electrolyzers have been ordered to produce a specified amount of hydrogen per day; the terms of the Supply Agreement remain in effect for five years following that date, unless terminated for default by either party (with such default subject to cure within sixty days). Hydrogen Purchase Agreement with WVR On June 22, 2021, we entered into the Hydrogen Sale Purchase Agreement with WVR pursuant to which we agreed to purchase hydrogen from the Plant being developed by WVR. The Hydrogen Purchase Agreement has an initial term ending on the later of (i) twelve years after WVR commences construction of the Plant, or (ii) ten years after the commercial operation date, which is the date the Plant has completed all construction, testing, permitting and start-up as is required to be available, without restrictions, to produce and deliver hydrogen meeting the specifications provided in the Hydrogen Purchase Agreement on a commercial basis. The Hydrogen Purchase Agreement automatically renews for five year terms ending on December 31 of each year, unless terminated by either party with 180 days’ prior written notice. In connection with the Hydrogen Purchase Agreement, on June 22, 2021, we also entered into a Membership Interests Purchase Agreement with WVR and the WVR Sellers, pursuant to which, subject to the terms and conditions therein, we purchased a 20% equity interest in WVR in exchange for $25 million in cash and 1,682,367 shares of our common stock. Pursuant to the MIPA, we will also pay the WVR Sellers an amount equal to the total economic benefit (as defined in the MIPA) received by us, minus the economic benefit actually received or realized by us that is greater than an agreed-upon threshold in the event any environmental, clean energy, low-carbon, production, or similar tax credits newly created pursuant to any federal or state legislation is adopted between the closing date and the first anniversary of the closing date and arising from the generation or production of hydrogen or hydrogen power in the manner contemplated by WVR for the designing, developing, building and operation of the Plant results in an economic benefit us as a member of WVR. In addition, on June 22, 2021, we and the WVR Sellers entered into a Second Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement of WVR, pursuant to which, among other things, we, in our sole discretion, obtained the right to own up to 20% of the entity to which WVR will transfer ownership of the hydrogen gas turbine to be part of the Plant, without further consideration paid therefore, subject to mutual agreement among us and the WVR Sellers with respect to the terms of governance and restrictions on transfer of equity. Available Information We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Our SEC filings are available to the public over the internet at the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. Our SEC filings are also available free of charge on the Investors Overview page of our website at nikolamotor.com as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the SEC. Our website and the information contained on or through that site are not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 30 Item 1A.