 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS The Company Oshkosh Corporation is a leading innovator, manufacturer and marketer of access equipment, specialty vehicles, and truck bodies for the primary markets of access equipment, defense, fire & emergency, refuse hauling and concrete placement. Each of our products and technologies is designed with customers and end-users in mind, from the four-wheel drive system that the Company patented in 1917 to advances in electrification, autonomy & active safety and intelligent products. The Company comprises 11 brands and maintains four reportable segments for financial reporting purposes: Access Equipment, Defense, Fire & Emergency and Commercial, which comprised 40%, 32%, 16% and 12%, respectively, of the Company’s consolidated net sales in fiscal 2021. Oshkosh’s leading brands include a wide range of products to serve a diverse group of industries. This allows the Company to leverage innovations and efficiencies across the enterprise, including supply chain, materials integration, manufacturing processes, facilities and cross portfolio innovation creating an industrial technology company that is a leader in its end markets. The Company made approximately 33%, 35% and 24% of its net sales for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively, to the U.S. government, a substantial majority of which were under multi-year contracts and programs in the defense vehicle market. See Note 24 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for financial information related to the Company’s business segments. JLG, a global designer and manufacturer of aerial work platforms and telehandlers used in a wide variety of construction, industrial, institutional and general maintenance applications to safely position workers and materials at elevated heights, forms the foundation of the Company’s Access Equipment segment. JLG’s customer base includes equipment rental companies, construction contractors, manufacturing companies and home improvement centers. The Access Equipment segment also includes Jerr-Dan-branded tow trucks (wreckers) and roll-back vehicle carriers (carriers) sold to towing companies. The Company’s Defense segment has designed, manufactured and sold military tactical wheeled vehicles to the DoD for more than 100 years. In 1981, Oshkosh Defense was awarded the first Heavy Expanded Mobility Tactical Truck (HEMTT) contract for the DoD, and thereafter, it developed into the DoD’s leading supplier of severe-duty, heavy-payload tactical trucks, manufacturing vehicles that perform a variety of demanding tasks such as hauling tanks, missile systems, ammunition, fuel, troops and cargo for combat units. In August 2009, Oshkosh Defense became the DoD’s sole producer of the Family of Medium Tactical Vehicles (FMTV). In February 2018, after successful completion of the original five-year requirements contract and several contract extensions, the DoD awarded Oshkosh Defense the FMTV A2 contract for the design, development, production and support of the next generation of FMTV. The Company is currently in the production verification testing phase of the FMTV A2 contract. In 2015, Oshkosh Defense extended its position into the light-payload tactical wheeled vehicle category by capturing the DoD’s Joint Light Tactical Vehicle (JLTV) program. The Company is currently in the full rate production phase of this eight-year contract. In February 2021, the USPS awarded Oshkosh Defense an indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity (IDIQ) contract to produce the Next Generation Delivery Vehicle (NGDV), the USPS’s first large-scale fleet procurement in three decades. The competitively awarded contract allows for the delivery of vehicles over a 10 year period. In June 2021, the U.S. Army awarded Oshkosh Defense a six-year contract to integrate a Medium Caliber Weapons System onto Stryker Double V Hull Infantry Carrier Vehicles. In addition, the Defense segment offers engineering and product development services to customers in the motorsports and multiple ground vehicle markets through Pratt Miller. The Defense segment also designs and manufactures airport snow removal equipment. The Company’s Fire & Emergency segment designs and manufactures custom and commercial firefighting vehicles and equipment, aircraft rescue and firefighting (ARFF) vehicles, simulators and other emergency vehicles primarily sold to fire departments, airports and other governmental units and broadcast vehicles sold to broadcasters and television stations. 1 The Company’s C ommercial segment designs and manufactures refuse collection vehicles and related components sold to commercial and municipal waste haulers, rear- and front-discharge concrete mixer vehicles and related components sold to ready-mix companies and field service vehicles and truck-mounted cranes sold to mining, construction and other companies. In October 2021, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a change in the Company’s fiscal year end from September 30 to December 31. Accordingly, the Company will report a transition quarter that runs from October 1, 2021 through December 31, 2021 (Stub Period). The Company’s next full fiscal year will run from January 1, 2022 through December 31, 2022. All references in Part I of this report to a quarter or year are to the Company’s historical fiscal quarter or fiscal year unless otherwise stated. Competitive Strengths The following competitive strengths support the Company’s business strategy: Strong Market Positions. The Company has developed strong market positions and brand recognition in its core businesses, which it attributes to its reputation for quality products, advanced engineering, market leading innovation, vehicle performance, reliability, customer service and low total cost of ownership. The Company maintains leading market shares in almost all of its businesses and is the sole-source supplier of a number of vehicles to the DoD. Diversified Product Offerings. The Company believes its broad product offerings and target markets serve to diversify its sources of revenues, mitigate the impact of economic cycles and provide multiple platforms for potential organic growth and acquisitions. The Company’s product offerings provide extensive opportunities to bundle products for sale to customers, co-location of manufacturing, leveraging purchasing power and sharing technology within and between segments. For each of its target markets, the Company has developed or acquired a broad product line in an effort to become a single-source provider of specialty vehicles, vehicle bodies, parts and service and related products to its customers. In addition, the Company has established an extensive domestic and international distribution network for specialty vehicles and vehicle bodies tailored to each market. Quality Products and Customer Service. The Company has developed strong brand recognition for its products as a result of its commitment to meet the stringent product quality and reliability requirements of its customers in the specialty vehicle and vehicle body markets it serves. The Company frequently achieves premium pricing due to the quality, durability and low total cost of ownership of its products. The Company also provides high quality customer service through its extensive parts and service support programs, which are generally available to customers 365 days a year in all product lines throughout the Company’s distribution network. Innovative and Proprietary Components. The Company’s advanced design and engineering capabilities have contributed to the development of innovative and/or proprietary, severe-duty components that enhance vehicle performance, reduce manufacturing costs and strengthen customer relationships. The Company’s advanced design and engineering capabilities have also allowed it to integrate many of these components across various segments and product lines, which enhances its ability to compete for new business and reduces its costs to manufacture its products compared to manufacturers who simply assemble purchased components. The Company has been a supplier of electric-powered products for more than 20 years and recently launched several new products that leverage zero emissions electrification for mobility across all segments. Flexible and Efficient Manufacturing. The Company believes it has competitive advantages over larger vehicle manufacturers in its specialty vehicle markets due to its product quality, manufacturing flexibility, vertical integration, purchasing power in specialty vehicle components and tailored distribution networks. In addition, the Company believes it has competitive advantages over smaller vehicle and vehicle body manufacturers due to its relatively higher volumes of similar products that permit the use of moving assembly lines and allow it to leverage purchasing power and technology opportunities across product lines. Strong Management Team. The Company is led by President and Chief Executive Officer John C. Pfeifer. Mr. Pfeifer is complemented by an experienced senior management team that has been assembled through internal promotions and 2 external hires. The Company’s Board of Directors maintains a robust succession planning process for its Executive Officers to ensure strong continuity. Business Strategy The Company has evolved its strategy to focus on its most important priorities. The strategy is grounded in its purpose of making a difference in the lives of those who build, serve, and protect communities around the world. The strategy is reflected in three simple words: Innovate. Serve. Advance. I nnovate. The Company innovates customer solutions by combining leading technology and operational strength to empower and protect the everyday hero. The Company is developing and integrating the most advanced technologies to fulfill its purpose in areas such as electrification and autonomy. Electrification provides enhanced performance and economic benefits, as well as sustainability benefits for customers. Using systems like Light Detection and Ranging, Radio Detection and Ranging and Global Positioning Systems along with advanced machine learning algorithms, the Company is developing autonomous vehicles and active safety systems. The Company is using data science, artificial intelligence, and predictive analytics to deliver better solutions. The Company is leveraging these and other innovations across its businesses to help ensure that it continues to be a market leader. S erve. The Company serves and supports customers and end users with a relentless focus on equipment productivity and safety throughout the product lifecycle. The Company believes aftermarket parts and services provide a robust growth opportunity while offering stability throughout business cycles. A dvance. The Company advances by expanding into new markets and geographies to make a difference around the world. The Company expects to continue to grow across the world and expand into new categories both organically, as with the recent USPS program win in the last mile delivery vehicle market, and inorganically through investments or acquisitions similar to the acquisition of Pratt Miller. Products The Company is focused on the following core segments of the specialty vehicle and vehicle body markets: Access Equipment segment. JLG is a leading designer and manufacturer of aerial work platforms and telehandlers used in a wide variety of construction, industrial, institutional and general maintenance applications to safely position workers and materials at elevated heights. In addition, through a long-term license with Caterpillar Inc. that extends through 2025, JLG produces Caterpillar-branded telehandlers for distribution through the worldwide Caterpillar Inc. dealer network. JLG also offers a broad range of parts and accessories, including technical support and training, and reconditioning services. Access Equipment customers include equipment rental companies, construction contractors, manufacturing companies and home improvement centers. JLG’s products are marketed worldwide through independent rental companies and distributors that purchase these products and then rent or sell them and provide service support, as well as through other sales and service branches or organizations. JLG also arranges equipment financing and leasing solutions for its customers, primarily through third-party funding arrangements with independent financial companies, and occasionally provides credit support in connection with these financing and leasing arrangements. Financing arrangements that JLG offers or arranges through this segment include various types of rental fleet loans and leases, as well as floor plan and retail financing. Terms of these arrangements vary depending on the type of transaction, but typically range from 36 to 72 months and generally require the customer to be responsible for maintenance of the equipment and to bear the risk of damage to or loss of the equipment. The Company, through its Jerr-Dan brand, is a leading designer, manufacturer and marketer of towing and recovery equipment in the U.S. The Company believes Jerr-Dan is recognized as an industry leader in quality and innovation. Jerr-Dan offers a complete line of both carriers and wreckers. In addition to manufacturing equipment, Jerr-Dan provides its customers with one-stop service for carriers and wreckers and generates revenue from the installation of equipment, as well as the sale of chassis and service parts. 3 Defense segment. Oshkosh Defense has designed and sold products to the DoD for over 100 years and also exports tactical wheeled vehicles to approved foreign customers. By successfully responding to the DoD’s changing vehicle requirements, Oshkosh Defense has become the leading manufacturer of h eavy, m edium, and l ight tactical wheeled vehicles and related sustainment services for the DoD. Oshkosh Defense designs and manufactures vehicles that perform a variety of demanding tasks such as hauling tanks, missile systems, ammunition, fuel, troops and cargo for a broad range of missions. Oshkosh Defense’s proprietary product line of military heavy-payload tactical wheeled vehicles includes the Heavy Expanded Mobility Tactical Truck ( HEMTT ), the Heavy Equipment Transporter (HET), the Palletized Load System (PLS), and the Logistic Vehicle System Replacement (LVSR). Oshkosh Defense’s proprietary medium-payload military tactical wheeled vehicles include the Medium Tactical Vehicle Replacement (MTVR). Oshkosh Defense’s proprietary light-payload military tactical wheeled vehicles include the Mine Resistant Ambush Protected-All Terrain Vehicle (M-ATV), which was specifically designed with superior survivability as well as extreme off-road mobility, and the JLTV, the Company’s newest and most technologically advanced member of the light-payload vehicle category designed to protect, sustain and provide mobility for personnel and payloads across the full spectrum of military operations. In August 2009, the DoD awarded Oshkosh Defense a contract to be the sole producer of FMTVs under the U.S. Army’s FMTV Rebuy program. Originally a five-year requirements contract, the DoD extended the FMTV Rebuy program several times to allow for the delivery of vehicles and trailers through the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021. In February 2018, the DoD awarded Oshkosh Defense the FMTV A2 contract for the design, development, production and support of a fleet of future generation FMTVs. The FMTV A2 contract is a firm-fixed price requirements contract that initially covers a five-year delivery period starting in 2021, with a customer option for two additional years. In June 2015, the DoD awarded Oshkosh Defense a new Family of Heavy Tactical Vehicles (FHTV) contract for the recapitalization of HEMTT, HET and PLS vehicles as well as associated logistics and configuration management support. The contract was a five-year requirements contract for the continued remanufacturing of FHTVs. In April 2021, the DoD awarded Oshkosh Defense an FHTV extension contract. The contract is a three-year requirements contract for FHTVs. This extension contract could extend FHTV deliveries into 2025. In August 2015, Oshkosh Defense solidified its position in the light-payload tactical wheeled vehicle category when the DoD awarded Oshkosh Defense an eight-year, fixed price JLTV contract valued at $6.7 billion for production and delivery of 16,901 of these technologically enhanced vehicles and related sustainment services. The Company delivered its first production JLTVs to the U.S. Army in September 2016. The program achieved the full rate production milestone decision in fiscal 2019. In fiscal 2021, the Army authorized an increase to the contract ceiling from 16,901 vehicles to 23,163. Under the current JLTV contract, Oshkosh Defense can accept vehicle orders through the first quarter of fiscal 2024 with deliveries into fiscal 2025. The U.S. Army, which purchased Government Purpose Rights to the Oshkosh JLTV design, is conducting a full and open competition for follow-on JLTV production, with a contract award expected in the second half of calendar 2022. The next phase of the JLTV program is expected to be valued at approximately $8.0 billion and to include requirements for more than 25,000 JLTVs and trailers. In total, the JLTV program is expected to be over a 20-year program for the production of up to 55,000 vehicles for the U.S. market and potentially several thousand more units for international allies of the U.S. In addition to retaining its current defense truck contracts, the Company’s objective is to continue to diversify into other areas of the U.S. and international defense vehicle markets by expanding applications, uses and vehicle body styles of its current tactical truck lines and growing aftermarket product and service offerings. In October 2020, the Company transferred operational responsibility of the airport snow removal vehicle business, a global leader in airport snow removal, from the Fire & Emergency segment to the Defense segment. The Company’s specially designed airport snow removal vehicles are used by some of the largest airports in the world and military bases in the United States. The Company believes that the reliability of its high-performance snow removal vehicles and the speed with which they clear airport runways contribute to its strong position in this market. In January 2021, the Company acquired Pratt Miller for $111.4 million. Through Pratt Miller, which is part of the Defense segment, the Company offers advanced engineering, product development and innovation services to the motorsport and multiple ground vehicle markets. 4 In February 2021, the Company was notified that the USPS selected Oshkosh Defense to build the NGDV. The IDIQ contract allows the USPS to purchase between 50,000 and 165,000 units over ten years. The NGDV provides the USPS the ability to significantly modernize its delivery fleet with improved safety, reliability, sustainability and cost-efficiency while providing a much better working experience for the nation’s postal carriers. The Company’s offering provides the USPS with both zero-emission battery electric vehicles (BEV) and fuel efficient, low emission internal combustion engine (ICE) vehicles. The vehicle design also provides the USPS with the flexibility of converting ICE units to BEV in the future. The initial $482 million contract provides for engineering to finalize the production vehicle design, and for tooling and factory build-out activities that are necessary prior to vehicle production. The Company expects to begin delivering production vehicles in the second half of calendar 2023. In June 2021, the U.S. Army awarded Oshkosh Defense a six-year contract worth up to $943 million to integrate the Medium Caliber Weapons System onto Stryker Double V Hull Infantry Carrier Vehicles. This contract award is important as it represents the Defense segment’s entrance into the adjacent combat vehicles market. Fire & Emergency segment. Through Pierce, the Company is the leading domestic designer and manufacturer of fire apparatus assembled on custom chassis, designed and manufactured to meet the special needs of firefighters. Pierce also designs and manufactures fire apparatus assembled on commercially available chassis, which are produced for multiple end-customer applications. Pierce’s engineering expertise allows it to design its vehicles to meet stringent industry guidelines and government regulations for safety and effectiveness. Pierce primarily serves domestic municipal customers, but also sells fire apparatus to the DoD, airports, universities and large industrial companies, and in international markets. Pierce’s history of innovation, research and development in consultation with firefighters has resulted in a broad product line that features a wide range of innovative, high-quality custom and commercial firefighting equipment with advanced fire suppression capabilities. In an effort to be a single-source supplier for its customers, Pierce offers a full line of custom and commercial fire apparatus and emergency vehicles, including pumpers, aerial platform, ladder and tiller trucks, tankers, light-, medium- and heavy-duty rescue vehicles, wildland rough terrain response vehicles, mobile command and control centers, bomb squad vehicles, hazardous materials control vehicles and other emergency response vehicles. The Company, through Airport Products, is a leader in the design and sale of ARFF vehicles to domestic and international airports. These highly-specialized vehicles are required to be in service at most airports worldwide to support commercial airlines in the event of an emergency. Many of the largest airports in the United States, including LaGuardia International Airport, John F. Kennedy International Airport, O’Hare International Airport, Denver International Airport, Baltimore-Washington International Airport, Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport, Tampa International Airport, Philadelphia International Airport and San Francisco International Airport, are served by the Company’s ARFF vehicles. The U.S. government also maintains a fleet of ARFF vehicles that are used to support military operations throughout the world. Internationally, the Company’s vehicles serve, among others, Beijing, China and more than fifty other airports in China; Singapore; Indonesia; Quebec, Canada; Abu Dhabi, UAE; and Birmingham, Cardiff, Manchester and Liverpool, United Kingdom. In addition, the Company has recently delivered ARFF vehicles to airports in Mexico, Japan, Egypt, Nepal, Iraq and the British Virgin Islands. The Company believes that the performance and reliability of its ARFF vehicles contribute to the Company’s strong position in this market. The Company, through its Frontline brand, is a leading manufacturer, system designer and integrator of broadcast vehicles, including electronic field production trailers, satellite news gathering and electronic news gathering vehicles for broadcasters and command trucks for local and federal governments along with being a leading supplier of military simulator shelters and trailers under the Oshkosh Specialty Vehicles (OSV) brand. The Company’s vehicles have been used worldwide to broadcast the NFL Super Bowl, the FIFA World Cup and the Olympics. The Company offers two- to fifteen-year municipal lease financing programs to its Fire & Emergency segment customers in the U.S. through the Pierce Financial Solutions program, provided by PNC Equipment Finance. Programs include competitive lease financing rates, creative and flexible finance arrangements and the ease of one-stop shopping for customers’ equipment and financing. The Company executes the lease financing transactions through a co-branded arrangement with an independent third-party finance company. The Company typically provides credit support in connection with these financing and leasing arrangements. 5 Commercial segment. Through McNeilus, the Company is a leading designer and manufacturer of refuse collection vehicles for the waste services industry throughout the Americas. Through Oshkosh Commercial, McNeilus and London, the Company is a leading designer and manufacturer of front- and rear-discharge concrete mixers for the concrete ready-mix industry throughout the Americas. Through IMT, the Company is a leading North American designer and manufacturer of field service vehicles and truck-mounted cranes for the construction, equipment dealer, building supply, utility, tire service, railroad and mining industries. The Company believes its Commercial segment vehicles and equipment have a reputation for market leading innovation, which drives enhanced safety, reliability and lower overall cost of ownership. The Company also arranges equipment financing and leasing solutions for its customers, primarily through third-party funding arrangements with independent financial companies, and occasionally provides credit support in connection with these financing and leasing arrangements. Marketing, Sales, Distribution and Service The Company believes it differentiates itself from many of its competitors by tailoring its distribution to the needs of its specialty vehicle and vehicle body markets and with its national and global sales and service capabilities. Distribution personnel demonstrate to customers how to use the Company’s products properly. In addition, the Company’s flexible distribution is focused on meeting customers on their terms, whether on a job site, in an evening public meeting or at a municipality’s office, compared to the showroom sales approach of the typical dealer of large vehicle manufacturers. The Company backs all products with same-day parts shipment, and its service technicians are available in person or by telephone to domestic customers 365 days a year. The Company believes its dedication to keeping its products in-service in demanding conditions worldwide has contributed to customer loyalty. The Company provides its salespeople, representatives and distributors with product and sales training on the operation and specifications of its products. The Company’s engineers, along with its product managers, develop operating manuals and provide field support at vehicle delivery. U.S. dealers and representatives enter into agreements with the Company that allow for termination by either party generally upon 90 days’ notice, subject to applicable laws. Dealers and representatives, except for those utilized by JLG and IMT, are generally not permitted to market and sell competitive products. Access Equipment segment. JLG’s products are marketed across six continents through independent rental companies and distributors that purchase JLG products and then rent or sell them and provide service support, as well as through other Company owned sales and service branches. JLG maintains a broad worldwide internal sales force. Sales employees are dedicated to specific major customers, channels or geographic regions. JLG’s international sales employees are spread among international sales and service offices throughout the world. The Company markets its Jerr-Dan-branded carriers and wreckers through its extensive network of independent distributors. Defense segment. While Oshkosh Defense sells a substantial portion of its domestic defense products directly to principal branches of the DoD, it has also sold its defense products to numerous international militaries around the globe and has expanded into adjacent markets, including the last mile delivery vehicle market. Oshkosh Defense maintains a liaison office in Washington, D.C. to represent its interests with the U.S. Congress, the offices of the Executive Branch of the U.S. government, the Pentagon, as well as international embassies and government agencies. Oshkosh Defense locates its business development, consultants and engineering professionals near its customers’ principal commands, both domestically and internationally. Oshkosh Defense sells and services defense products to approved international governments as Direct Commercial Sales or Foreign Military Sales via U.S. government channels. Oshkosh Defense supports international sales through international sales offices, as well as through dealers, distributors and representatives. In addition to marketing its current tactical wheeled vehicle offerings and competing for new contracts, Oshkosh Defense actively works with its customers to develop new applications for its vehicles and expand its services. 6 Logistics services are increasingly important to Oshkosh Defense. The Company believes that its proven worldwide logistics capabilities, invoicing and electronic payment systems have significantly contributed to the expansion of its defense parts and service business. Oshkosh Defense maintains a large parts distribution warehouse in Milwaukee, Wisconsin to fulfill stringent parts delivery schedule requirements, as well as satellite facilities near DoD bases in the U.S., Europe, Asia and the Middle East. The Company’s snow removal business uses a combination of internal sales and service representatives and distributor locations to focus on the sale of snow removal vehicles, principally to airports, but also to municipalities, counties and other governmental entities in the U.S. and Canada. In addition, the Company maintains offices in Dubai, UAE; Beijing, China; and Singapore to support airport product vehicle sales and aftermarket sales and support in Europe, the Middle East, China and Southeast Asia. The Company markets Pratt Miller’s world class engineering and product development services primarily through internal sales representatives. Fire & Emergency segment. The Company believes the geographic breadth, size and quality of its Pierce fire apparatus sales and service organization are competitive advantages in a market characterized by a few large manufacturers and numerous small, regional competitors. Pierce’s fire apparatus are sold through an extensive network of independent sales and service organizations with hundreds of sales representatives in the U.S. and Canada, which combine broad geographical reach with high frequency of contact with fire departments and municipal government officials. These sales and service organizations are supported by product and marketing support professionals and contract administrators at Pierce. The Company believes high frequency of contact and local presence are important to cultivate major, and typically infrequent, purchases involving the city or town council, fire department, purchasing, finance and mayoral offices, among others, that may participate in a fire apparatus bid and selection process. After the sale, Pierce’s nationwide local parts and service capability is available to help municipalities maintain peak readiness for this vital municipal service. Pierce also sells directly to the DoD and other U.S. government agencies. Many of the Pierce fire apparatus sold to the DoD are placed in service at U.S. military bases, camps and stations overseas. Additionally, Pierce sells fire apparatus to international municipal and industrial fire departments through a network of international dealers. The Company markets its Frontline-branded broadcast vehicles through sales representatives and its Frontline-branded command vehicles through both sales representatives and dealer organizations that are directed at government and commercial customers. The Company markets its Oshkosh-branded ARFF vehicles through a combination of direct sales representatives domestically and an extensive network of representatives and distributors in international markets. Certain of these international representatives and distributors also handle Pierce products. Commercial segment. The Company believes its network of representatives and dealers is a competitive advantage in refuse collection vehicle and concrete mixer markets, particularly in the U.S. waste services industry where principal competitors distribute through dealers and to a lesser extent in the ready mix concrete industry, where several competitors in part use dealers. The Company believes its distribution model allows for a more tailored distribution approach in the U.S. refuse collection vehicle and concrete mixer markets, whereas dealers frequently offer a broad and mixed product line, and accordingly, the time dealers tend to devote to refuse collection vehicle and concrete mixer sales activities is limited. The Company has also established an extensive network of representatives and dealers throughout the Americas for the sale of McNeilus-branded refuse collection vehicles and Oshkosh-, McNeilus- and London-branded concrete mixers to international customers. The Company coordinates among its various businesses to respond to large international sales tenders with its most appropriate product offering for the tender. The Company utilizes an extensive network of representatives and dealers supported by hundreds of internal and external sales and service representatives in North America to sell and service refuse collection vehicles and front- and rear-discharge concrete mixers. The Company also performs sales and service activities at the Company’s manufacturing facilities. Service centers located throughout the U.S. provide sales, service and parts distribution to customers in their 7 geographic regions. The Company believes this network represents one of the largest refuse collection vehicle and concrete mixer distribution networks in the U.S. IMT distributes its products through a wide network of dealers in over one hundred locations worldwide. International dealers are primarily located in Central and South America, Australia and Asia and are primarily focused on mining and construction markets. Manufacturing The Company manufactures its products at 28 manufacturing facilities. To reduce production costs, the Company maintains a continuing emphasis on the development of proprietary components, self-sufficiency in fabrication, just-in-time inventory management, improvement in production flows and interchangeability of components among product lines, creation of jigs and fixtures to ensure repeatability of quality processes, utilization of robotics, and performance measurement to assure progress toward cost reduction targets. The Company encourages employee involvement to improve production processes and product quality. The Company uses a common Quality Management System globally to support the delivery of consistent, high quality products and services to customers. The Company requires employees at all levels to understand customer and supplier requirements, measure performance, develop systems and procedures to prevent product nonconformance and continually improve all work processes. The Company educates and trains all employees at its facilities in quality principles. The Company utilizes quality gates in its manufacturing facilities to identify issues early in the process and to analyze root cause at the source, resulting in fewer defects and less rework. The Company’s Quality Management System is based on ISO 9001, a set of internationally-accepted requirements established by the International Organization for Standardization. ISO 9001 certification indicates that a company has established and follows a rigorous set of standards aimed at achieving customer satisfaction by following a process-based approach to identify and control the quality needs of suppliers, inputs, critical processes and outputs. The Quality Management System helps ensure that the Company is continually improving and sharing successful practices across the organization. The following brands are ISO 9001 certified: JLG, Oshkosh Defense, Pierce, McNeilus, Frontline, Jerr-Dan and Airport Products. The Company has a team of employees dedicated to leading the implementation of the Company’s simplification initiatives. The team is comprised of members with diverse backgrounds in quality, lean, data analytics, product and process engineering, and culture change management. Simplification includes lean tools to eliminate waste and to provide better value for customers. It also guides customer satisfaction assessments to help identify opportunities to improve the customer experience with Oshkosh. Within the Company’s facilities, simplification projects have contributed to manufacturing efficiency gains, materials management improvements, quality enhancements and reduction of lead times. Simplification projects have also freed up manufacturing capacity to support production increases. Engineering, Research and Development The Company believes its extensive engineering, research and development capabilities have been key drivers of the Company’s marketplace success. The Company maintains multiple facilities for new product development and testing with a staff of approximately 1,600 engineers and technicians who are dedicated to improving existing products, development and testing of new vehicles, vehicle bodies and components and sustaining its production activities. The Company prepares multi-year new product development and technology plans for each of its markets and measures progress against those plans each month. Virtually all of the Company’s sales of fire apparatus and broadcast vehicles require some level of custom engineering to meet the customer’s specifications and changing industry standards. Engineering is also a critical factor in defense vehicle markets due to the severe operating conditions under which the Company’s vehicles are utilized, new customer requirements and stringent government documentation requirements. Product innovation is highly important to meeting customers’ changing requirements. Accordingly, in addition to new product development engineers and technicians, the Company maintains an additional permanent staff of engineers and engineering technicians to sustain its production activities. 8 Recent examples of the Company’s product innovation include the DaVinci lift, a fully electric scissor lift that leverages highly sophisticated technology including linear actuators in place of traditional hydraulic cylinders in an elegant design to bring industry defining productivity and serviceability to both rental companies and end users in the access equipment market. The Company believes that by removing unnecessary parts and replacing them with electric components, the DaVinci will require virtually zero maintenance and deliver unprecedented performance, efficiency, and a lower total cost of ownership. The Company’s Fire & Emergency segment introduced the revolutionary Volterra platform of electric vehicles that meets the critical needs of fire departments while providing the operational performance customers expect from Pierce fire apparatus. The Volterra platform offers zero emissions, reduced noise, an electro-mechanical infinitely variable transmission (EMIVT), integrated onboard batteries and industry-leading operational range for full-shift operation. The Volterra is available as both a customer pumper for municipal applications and an ARFF vehicle. Competition In all of the Company’s segments, competitors include smaller, specialized manufacturers as well as large, mass producers. The Company believes that, in its specialty vehicle and vehicle body markets, it has been able to effectively compete against large, mass producers due to its product quality, innovation, manufacturing flexibility, vertical integration, purchasing power in specialty vehicle components and tailored distribution systems. In addition, the Company believes it has competitive advantages over smaller vehicle and vehicle body manufacturers due to its relatively higher volumes of similar products that permit the use of moving assembly lines, which allow it to leverage purchasing power and technology opportunities across product lines. The Company believes that its competitive cost structure, strategic global purchasing capabilities, engineering expertise, product quality and global distribution and service systems have enabled it to compete effectively. Certain of the Company’s competitors have greater financial, marketing, manufacturing, distribution and governmental affairs resources than the Company. There can be no assurance that the Company’s products will continue to compete effectively with the products of competitors or that the Company will be able to retain its customer base or improve or maintain its profit margins on sales to its customers, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Access Equipment segment. JLG operates in the global construction, maintenance and industrial equipment markets. JLG’s competitors range from some of the world’s largest multi-national construction equipment manufacturers to small single-product niche manufacturers. Within this global market, competition for sales of aerial work platform equipment includes Genie Industries, Inc. (a subsidiary of Terex Corporation), Skyjack Inc. (a subsidiary of Linamar Corporation), Haulotte Group, Xuzhou Construction Machinery Group Co., Ltd. (XCMG), Zhejiang Dingli Machinery Co., Ltd. and numerous other manufacturers. Global competition for sales of telehandler equipment includes J C Bamford Excavators Ltd., the Manitou Group, Merlo SpA, Genie Industries, Inc., Haulotte Group, Skyjack Inc. and numerous other manufacturers. In addition, JLG faces competition from numerous manufacturers of other niche products such as boom vehicles, cherry pickers, skid steer loaders, mast climbers, straight mast and vehicle-mounted fork-lifts, rough-terrain and all-terrain cranes, vehicle-mounted cranes, portable material lifts, various types of material handling equipment, scaffolding and the common ladder that offer functionality that is similar to or overlaps that of JLG’s products. Principal methods of competition include brand awareness, product innovation and performance, price, quality, service and support, product availability and the extent to which a company offers single-source customer solutions. The Company believes its competitive strengths include: premium brand names; broad and single-source product offerings; product quality; product residual values that are generally higher than competitors’ units; worldwide distribution; safety record; service and support network; global procurement scale; extensive manufacturing capabilities; and cross-division synergies with other segments within Oshkosh Corporation. The principal competitor for Jerr-Dan-branded products is Miller Industries, Inc. Principal methods of competition for carriers and wreckers include product quality and innovation, product performance, price and service. The Company believes its competitive strengths in this market include its high quality, innovative and high-performance product line and its cost competitive manufacturing capabilities. Defense segment. Oshkosh Defense produces heavy- and medium-payload, Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) and light-payload tactical wheeled vehicles for the military and security forces around the world and postal delivery vehicles 9 to USPS. Competition for sales of these vehicles includes, among others, Navistar Defense LLC (a subsidiary of Cerberus Capital Management, LP ), General Dynamics Corporation, AM General LLC (a subsidiary of KPS Capital Partners, LP), BAE Systems plc, General Motors Defense, Utilimaster (a subsidiary of The Shyft Group), Morgan Olson (a subsidiary of JB Poindexter & C o., Inc. ), Workhorse Group and Rivian. The principal method of competition in the D efense segment involves a competitive bid process that takes into account factors as determined by the customer, such as price, product performance, product life cycle costs, small and disadvantaged business participation, product quality, adherence to bid specifications, production capability, project management capability, past performance and product support. Usually, the Company’s vehicle systems must also pass extensive testing. The Company believes that its competitive strengths include: strategic global purchasing capabilities leveraged across multiple business segments; extensive pricing/costing and defense contracting expertise; a significant installed base of vehicles currently in use throughout the world; flexible and high-efficiency vertically-integrated manufacturing capabilities; patented and/or proprietary vehicle components such as the TAK-4 family of independent suspension systems, Oshkosh power transfer cases and Command Zone integrated vehicle diagnostics; weapons and communications integration; ability to develop new and improved product capabilities responsive to the needs of its customers; product quality; and aftermarket parts sales and service capabilities. The Weapon Systems Acquisition Reform Act requires competition for defense programs in certain circumstances. Accordingly, it is possible that the U.S. Army and U.S. Marine Corps will conduct competitions for programs for which the Company currently has contracts upon the expiration of the existing contracts. Competition for these and other domestic programs could result in future contracts being awarded based upon different competitive factors than those described above and would primarily include price, production capability and past performance. The U.S. government has become more aggressive in seeking to acquire the design rights to the Company’s current and potential future programs to facilitate competition for manufacturing our vehicles. The willingness of the bidders to license their design rights to the DoD was an evaluation factor in the JLTV and FMTV A2 contract competitions. Certain of the Company’s contracts with the DoD, including the JLTV and FMTV A2 contracts, require that the Company effectively transfer the “technical know-how” necessary to produce and support the vehicles and/or other deliverables within the contract to the customer. The Competition in Contracting Act requires competition for U.S. defense programs in most circumstances. Competition for DoD programs currently supplied by the Company could result in the U.S. government awarding future contracts to another manufacturer or the U.S. government awarding the contracts to the Company at lower prices and operating margins than the Company experiences under current contracts. The Company’s principal competitors for snow removal vehicle sales are M-B Companies, Inc. (owned by Aebi Schmidt Holding AG), Wausau-Everest LP (owned by Alamo Group, Inc.) and Overaasen AS. Principal methods of competition are product performance, price, service, product quality and innovation. The Company believes its competitive strengths in these airport markets include its high-quality, innovative products and a strong service support network. The Company’s principal competitors for Pratt Miller’s engineering and product development services include Ricardo PLC, Corvid Technologies and GS Engineering Inc. Fire & Emergency segment. The Company produces and sells custom and commercial firefighting vehicles in the U.S. and abroad under the Pierce brand and broadcast and command vehicles in the U.S. and abroad under the Frontline brand. Competitors for firefighting vehicles include Rosenbauer International AG; E-One, Inc., Ferrara Fire Apparatus, Inc., Spartan ER, and Kovatch Mobile Equipment Corp. (all four owned by REV Group, Inc.); and numerous smaller, regional manufacturers. Principal methods of competition include brand awareness, ability to meet or exceed customer specifications, price, the extent to which a company offers single-source customer solutions, product innovation, product quality, dealer distribution, and service and support. The Company believes that its competitive strengths include: recognized, premium brand name; nationwide network of independent Pierce dealers; extensive, high-quality and innovative product offerings, which include single-source customer solutions for aerials, pumpers and rescue units; large-scale and high-efficiency custom manufacturing capabilities; and proprietary technologies such as the PUC vehicle configuration, TAK-4 independent suspension system, Hercules and Husky foam systems, Command Zone electronics and the Ascendant family of aerial fire trucks. The main competitor for broadcast vehicles is Accelerated Media Technologies. The principal competition for command vehicles is LDV, Inc., MBF Industries, Inc., Nomad Global Communication Solutions, Incorporated, Farber Specialty Vehicles, Inc. and Matthews Specialty Vehicles, Inc. 10 Airport Products manufactures ARFF vehicles for sale in the U.S. and abroad. Oshkosh’s competitors for ARFF vehicle sales are Rosenbauer International AG and E - One, Inc. Commercial segment. McNeilus produces refuse collection vehicles for North America and international markets. Competitors include The Heil Company (a subsidiary of Dover Corporation), New Way Trucks, Labrie Enviroquip Group (owned by Wynnchurch Capital) and other regional competitors. The principal methods of competition are product quality, product performance, service and price. The Company competes for municipal business and large commercial business in the Americas, which is generally based on lowest qualified bid. The Company believes its competitive strengths in the Americas refuse collection vehicle markets include: strong brand recognition; innovative and comprehensive product offerings; a reputation for high-quality products; ability to offer factory-installed compressed natural gas fuel systems; ability to integrate refuse collection bodies with electric chassis; large-scale and high-efficiency manufacturing; and an extensive network of sales and service centers located throughout the U.S. The Company produces front- and rear-discharge concrete mixers for the Americas under the Oshkosh, McNeilus and London brands. Competition for concrete mixer sales includes Beck Industrial, Con-Tech Manufacturing, Inc., Terex Corporation and other regional competitors. Principal methods of competition are price, service, product features, product quality and product availability. The Company believes its competitive strengths include: strong brand recognition; large-scale and high-efficiency manufacturing; extensive product offerings; high product quality; innovative control systems; ability to offer factory-installed compressed natural gas fuel systems; a significant installed base of concrete mixers in use in the marketplace; and its nationwide network of sales and service centers. IMT is a manufacturer of field service vehicles and truck-mounted cranes for the construction, equipment dealer, building supply, utility, tire service, railroad and mining industries. IMT’s principal field service vehicle competition is from Auto Crane Company (owned by Ramsey Industries, Inc.), Stellar Industries, Inc., Maintainer Corporation of Iowa, Inc., the Knapheide Manufacturing Company and other regional companies. Competition in truck-mounted cranes comes primarily from European companies including Palfinger AG, Cargotec Corporation and Fassi Group SpA. Principal methods of competition are product quality, price and service. The Company believes its competitive strengths include its high-quality products, global distribution network and low-cost manufacturing capabilities. Government Contracts Approximately 33% of the Company’s net sales for fiscal 2021 were made to the U.S. government, a substantial majority of which were under multi-year contracts and programs in the defense vehicle market. Accordingly, a significant portion of the Company’s sales are subject to risks specific to doing business with the U.S. government, including uncertainty of economic conditions, changes in government policies and requirements that may reflect rapidly changing military and political developments, the availability of funds and the ability to meet specified performance thresholds. Multi-year contracts may be conditioned upon continued availability of congressional appropriations and are impacted by uncertainty regarding federal budget pressures. Variances between anticipated budget and congressional appropriations may result in a delay, reduction or termination of these contracts. Oshkosh Defense’s sales are substantially dependent upon periodic awards of new contracts, the purchase base vehicle quantities and the exercise of options under existing contracts. The funding of U.S. government programs is subject to an annual congressional budget authorization and appropriation process. In years when the U.S. government has not completed its budget process before the end of its fiscal year, government operations are typically funded pursuant to a “continuing resolution,” which allows federal government agencies to operate at spending levels approved in the previous budget cycle but does not authorize new spending initiatives. When the U.S. government operates under a continuing resolution, delays can occur in the procurement of the products, services and solutions that Oshkosh Defense provides and may result in new initiatives being delayed or canceled, or funds could be reprogrammed away from Oshkosh Defense’s programs to pay for higher priority operational needs. In years when the U.S. government fails to complete its budget process or to provide for a continuing resolution, a federal government shutdown may result. This could in turn result in the delay or cancellation of key programs, which could have a negative effect on the Company’s cash flows and adversely affect the Company’s future results. In addition, payments to contractors for services performed during a federal government shutdown may be delayed, which would have a negative effect on the Company’s cash flows. 11 C ontract awards that Oshkosh Defense receives may be subject to protests by competing bidders. These protests, if successful, could result in the customer revoking part or all of any defense contract it awards to Oshkosh Defense and an inability of Oshkosh Defense to recover amounts it has expended during the protest period in anticipation of initiating work under any such contract. Under firm, fixed-price contracts with the U.S. government, the price paid to the Company is generally not subject to adjustment to reflect the Company’s actual costs, except costs incurred as a result of contract changes ordered by the U.S. government. The Company generally attempts to negotiate with the U.S. government the amount of increased compensation to which the Company is entitled for government-ordered changes that result in higher costs. If the Company is unable to negotiate a satisfactory agreement to provide such increased compensation, then the Company may file an appeal with the Armed Services Board of Contract Appeals or the U.S. Claims Court. The Company has no such appeals pending. The Company seeks to mitigate risks with respect to fixed-price contracts by executing firm, fixed-price contracts with its suppliers of significant components for the duration of the Company’s contracts. U.S. government contracts generally permit the government to terminate a contract, in whole or part, at the government’s convenience. If the U.S. government exercises its rights under this clause the contractor is entitled to payment for the allowable costs incurred and a reasonable profit on the work performed to date. The U.S. government can also terminate a contract for default. If a contract is terminated for default, the contractor is generally entitled to payment for work that has been accepted by the U.S. government. Termination for default may expose the Company to loss on work not yet accepted by the government and have a negative impact on the Company’s ability to obtain future orders and contracts. The U.S. government’s right to terminate its contracts has not had a material effect on the operations or financial condition of the Company. The Company, as a U.S. government contractor, is subject to financial audits and other reviews by the U.S. government relating to the performance of, and the accounting and general practices relating to, U.S. government contracts. Like most large government contractors, the Company is audited and reviewed by the government on a continual basis. Costs and prices under such contracts may be subject to adjustment based upon the results of such audits and reviews. Additionally, such audits and reviews can lead to civil, criminal or administrative proceedings. Such proceedings could involve claims by the government for fines, penalties, compensatory and treble damages, restitution and/or forfeitures. Under government regulations, a company or one or more of its subsidiaries can also be suspended or debarred from government contracts, or lose its export privileges based on the results of such proceedings. The Company believes that the outcome of all such audits and reviews that are now pending will not have a material effect on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Suppliers The Company is dependent on its suppliers and subcontractors to meet commitments to its customers, and many components are procured or subcontracted on a sole-source basis with a number of domestic and foreign companies. Components for the Company’s products are generally available from a number of suppliers, although the transition to a new supplier may require several months to conclude. The Company purchases chassis components, such as vehicle frames, engines, transmissions, radiators, axles, tires, drive motors, bearings and hydraulic components and vehicle body options, such as cranes, cargo bodies and trailers, from third-party suppliers. These body options may be manufactured specific to the Company’s requirements; however, most of the body options could be manufactured by other suppliers or the Company itself. Through reliance on this supply network for the purchase of certain components, the Company is able to reduce many of the pre-production and fixed costs associated with the manufacture of these components and vehicle body options. The Company purchases a large amount of fabrications and outsources certain manufacturing services, each generally from small companies located near its facilities. While providing low-cost services and product surge capability, such companies often require additional management attention during difficult economic conditions or contract start-up. The Company also purchases complete vehicle chassis from truck chassis suppliers in its Commercial segment and, to a lesser extent, in its Fire & Emergency and Access Equipment segments. Increasingly, the Company is sourcing components globally, which may involve additional inventory requirements and introduces additional foreign currency exposures. The Company maintains an extensive qualification, on-site inspection, assistance and performance measurement system to attempt to control risks associated with reliance on suppliers. The Company occasionally experiences problems with 12 supplier and subcontractor performance and component, chassis and body availability and must identify alternate sources of supply and/or address related warranty claims from customers. While the Company purchases many costly components such as chassis, engines and transmissions, it manufactures certain proprietary components and systems. These components include front drive steer axles, transfer cases, transaxles, cabs, the TAK-4 independent suspension system, Hercules and Husky compressed air foam systems, the Command Zone vehicle control system, body structures and many smaller parts that add uniqueness and value to the Company’s products. The Company believes controlling the production of these components provides a significant competitive advantage and also serves to reduce the production costs of the Company’s products. Intellectual Property Patents and licenses are important in the operation of the Company’s business. One of management’s objectives is developing proprietary components to provide the Company’s customers with advanced technological solutions at attractive prices. The Company holds in excess of 1,100 active domestic and foreign patents. The Company believes patents for the TAK-4 independent suspension system, which expire between 2021 and 2040, provide the Company with a competitive advantage in the Defense and Fire & Emergency segments. In the Defense segment, the TAK-4 independent suspension system has been incorporated into the U.S. Marine Corps’ MTVR and LVSR programs, the U.S. Army’s PLS A1 program, the MRAP - Joint Program Office M-ATV program, the JLTV program and the FMTV A2 program. The Company believes the TAK-4 independent suspension system provided a performance and cost advantage that contributed to the Company winning these programs. In the Fire & Emergency segment, TAK-4 independent suspension systems are standard on many Pierce custom fire trucks and Global Striker ARFF vehicles, which the Company believes brings a similar competitive advantage to these markets. The Company believes that patents for certain components of its ProPulse hybrid electric drive system and Command Zone electronics system offer potential competitive advantages to product lines across all its segments. To a lesser extent, other proprietary components provide the Company a competitive advantage in each of the Company’s segments. As part of the Company’s long-term alliance with Caterpillar Inc., the Company acquired a non-exclusive, non-transferable worldwide license to use certain Caterpillar Inc. intellectual property through 2025 in connection with the design and manufacture of Caterpillar Inc.’s current telehandler products. Additionally, Caterpillar Inc. assigned to JLG certain patents and patent applications relating to the Caterpillar-branded telehandler products. The Company holds trademarks for “Oshkosh,” “Oshkosh Defense,” “TAK-4,” “ProPulse,” “JLG,” “SkyTrak,” “Pierce,” “McNeilus,” “Jerr-Dan,” “London,” “IMT,” “Pratt Miller,” “DaVinci” and “Volterra” among others. These trademarks are considered to be important to the future success of the Company’s business. Environmental Matters The Company is subject to a wide variety of local, state, and federal environmental laws in the U.S., as well as in other countries where the Company conducts business. Our facilities, operations and products are subject to increasingly stringent environmental laws and regulations globally, including laws and regulations governing air emissions, noise, releases to soil and discharges to water and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment, and disposal of non-hazardous and hazardous waste materials. Some environmental laws impose strict, retroactive, and joint and several liability for the release of hazardous substances, even for conduct that was lawful at the time it occurred, or for the conduct of, or conditions caused by prior operators, predecessors or other third parties. With respect to acquired properties and businesses, the Company conducts due diligence into potential exposure to environmental liabilities but cannot be certain that it has identified or will identify all adverse environmental conditions. We believe that our policies, practices, and procedures are properly designed to prevent unreasonable risk of environmental damage and the consequent financial liability to the Company. Nevertheless, we could incur substantial costs as a result of non-compliance with or liability for cleanup or other costs or damages under environmental laws. Also, we may be subject to other more stringent environmental laws in the future. If more stringent environmental laws are 13 enacted in the future, these laws could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operation s, and financial condition. Human Capital Management As of September 30, 2021, the Company had approximately 15,000 employees, approximately 9,000 of whom are production employees. The Company tracks its human capital management performance by measuring numerous relevant elements relating to its employees, including but not limited to, safety and diversity and inclusion. The United Auto Workers (UAW) Union represented approximately 1,800 production employees at the Company’s Oshkosh, Wisconsin facilities; the Boilermakers, Iron Shipbuilders, Blacksmiths and Forgers Union (Boilermakers) represented approximately 200 employees at the Company’s Kewaunee, Wisconsin facility; and the International Brotherhood of Teamsters Union (Teamsters) represented approximately 175 employees at the Company’s Garner, Iowa facility. The Company’s agreement with the UAW expires in September 2027. The Company’s five-year agreement with the Boilermakers expires in May 2022. The Company’s three-year agreement with the Teamsters extends through October 2023. In addition, approximately 25% of the Company’s approximately 2,300 employees located outside of the U.S. are represented by separate works councils or unions. People First Culture. The Company maintains a People First culture that includes investing in team members’ engagement, safety, wellbeing, and personal and professional development, as well as diversity and inclusion. The Company believes its People First culture is a strength, and the Company intends to continue building upon that culture to drive long-term, sustainable performance across the business. In fiscal 2020, 67% of team members participated in the Company’s Employee Engagement Survey. Engagement was at a high point compared to past surveys with a 77% positive engagement score. The Company expects all team members to adhere to the highest ethical standards every day. The Company’s Code of Ethics & Conduct, also known as The Oshkosh Way, lays out the Company’s core values and standards for ethical behavior. The Company’s connection to its communities and corresponding volunteer efforts have long been an important part of the Company’s culture and team member engagement. The Company’s teams creatively identified opportunities to volunteer in fiscal 2021 donating over 15,000 hours to the communities in which they live and work. For the last seven years, the Company has held the Oshkosh Excellence Awards (OEAs), an annual competition that invites team members to submit innovative ideas to foster improvements for its culture, operations, products and customers. The COVID-19 pandemic challenged the Company’s ability to have a global event, so it pivoted to create a new competition called Cheers to Peers, where team members could nominate those who demonstrated the Company’s core values through leadership, courage, and perseverance in the face of unprecedented challenges brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic. Over 450 nominations were submitted, highlighting the Company’s team members’ commitment to putting people first during a global pandemic. Talent and Learning. The Company’s business strategy is enabled by its ability to attract, develop and retain world-class talent. In fiscal 2021, in spite of COVID-19-related challenges, the Company continued a series of executive leadership development events, shifting from in-person to virtual attendance. More than 350 global leaders completed over 2,000 hours of learning on topics including diversity, equity and inclusion, megatrends, data analytics and innovation. The Company expanded its enterprise Learning Management System to enable all 15,000 team members to access learning content on its technology platform. Strategic succession planning, future leader pipelines and critical role depth were reviewed and updated during the fiscal year. All leaders are expected to complete regular check-ins to provide feedback, review annual goal progress and hold career development conversations with team members to help ensure alignment, drive engagement and facilitate strong business outcomes. Health and Safety. The Company focuses on protecting the health and safety of its team members. This has been even more important with COVID-19 creating new disruptions and health threats to the Company’s team members. The Company follows government-mandated health and safety guidance including mask and social distancing requirements 14 within its facilities. In addition to complying with external safety mandates, each facility continues to manage its response to COVID-19 based on localized risk factors. The Company takes a proactive approach to managing safety, is committed to achieving zero workplace injuries and has consistently improved its safety performance over the past few years as illustrated below. The Company offers a competitive, inclusive and empowering benefit platform to help ensure that no matter where team members are in their wellbeing journey, they are supported in their physical, financial and emotional goals. In calendar 2021, the Company cared for over 25,000 team members and their families on its medical plan. The Company introduced a program supporting the health and wellness of the team members that account for the highest number of preventable illnesses. In addition, the Company launched an expert second opinion medical service to support team members in confirming diagnosis and treatment plans. The Company also focused on improving team members’ financial goals by securing a new retirement plan administrator in fiscal 2021. The Company has set several goals and benchmarks for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) performance, using both internal goals and federal standards. The Company’s diversity representation is published in its fiscal 2020 Sustainability Report and the Company is driving proactive programs to improve its diverse employee representation. The Company measures diverse hires for full-time U.S. non-production positions and has a goal that 50% of such hires be diverse in any given year. Diverse hires include ethnicity, gender, veteran and disability status. In fiscal 2021, 48% of the Company’s hires for full-time U.S. non-production positions were diverse. Seasonal Nature of Business In the Company’s Access Equipment and Commercial segments, business tends to be seasonal with an increase in sales occurring in the spring and summer months that constitute the traditional construction season in the northern hemisphere. In addition, sales are generally lower in the three months ended December 31 in all segments due to the relatively high number of holidays in the United States, which reduce available production and shipping days. Available Information The Company maintains a website with the address www.oshkoshcorp.com. The Company is not including the information contained on the Company’s website as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company makes available free of charge (other than an investor’s own Internet access charges) through its website its Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company electronically files such materials with, or furnishes such materials to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). ITEM 1A.