 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS General The Company is a leading designer, manufacturer and marketer of a wide range of essential specialty vehicles and vehicle bodies, including access equipment, defense trucks and trailers, fire & emergency vehicles, refuse collection vehicles and concrete mixers. The Company is a leading global designer and manufacturer of aerial work platforms under the “JLG” brand name. The Company is among the worldwide leaders in the design and manufacturing of telehandlers under the “JLG” and “SkyTrak” brand names. Under the “Jerr-Dan” brand name, the Company is a leading domestic designer and manufacturer and marketer of towing and recovery equipment. The Company manufactures defense trucks under the “Oshkosh” brand name and is a leading designer and manufacturer of severe-duty, tactical wheeled vehicles for the DoD. Under the “Pierce” brand name, the Company is among the leading global designers and manufacturers of fire trucks assembled on both custom and commercial chassis. Under the “Frontline” brand name, the Company is a leading domestic designer, manufacturer and marketer of broadcast and command vehicles. The Company designs and manufactures aircraft rescue and firefighting and airport snow removal vehicles under the “Oshkosh” brand name. Under the “McNeilus” brand name, the Company designs and manufactures a wide range of automated, rear, front, side and top loading refuse collection vehicles. Under the “McNeilus,” “Oshkosh,” and “London” brand names, the Company designs and manufactures rear- and front-discharge concrete mixers. Under the “IMT” brand name, the Company is a leading domestic designer and manufacturer of field service vehicles and truck-mounted cranes. Major products manufactured and marketed by each of the Company’s business segments are as follows: Access Equipment — aerial work platforms and telehandlers used in a wide variety of construction, industrial, institutional and general maintenance applications to position workers and materials at elevated heights, as well as carriers and wreckers. Access Equipment customers include equipment rental companies, construction contractors, manufacturing companies, home improvement centers and towing companies in the U.S. and abroad. Defense — tactical trucks, trailers and supply parts and services sold to the U.S. military and to other militaries around the world. Fire & Emergency — custom and commercial firefighting vehicles and equipment, ARFF vehicles, snow removal vehicles, simulators, mobile command and control vehicles and other emergency vehicles primarily sold to fire departments, airports and other governmental units, and broadcast vehicles sold to broadcasters and TV stations in the U.S. and abroad. Commercial — refuse collection vehicles and concrete mixers sold to ready-mix companies and commercial and municipal waste haulers in the Americas and other international markets and field service vehicles and truck-mounted cranes sold to mining, construction and other companies in the U.S. and abroad. All estimates referred to in this “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” refer to the Company’s estimates as of November 18, 2020. Executive Overview Entering fiscal 2020, the Company expected lower Access Equipment sales in North America and Europe as rental company customers were slowing down their capital expenditures after two years of strong fleet growth, but the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the business environment significantly altered the Company’s expectations for the year. The COVID-19 pandemic significantly impacted demand in certain markets in fiscal 2020, with the Company’s construction-related markets impacted most severely. The Company quickly responded to the challenges caused by the pandemic, including changing customer demand, new working protocols, workforce availability issues and supply chain disruptions. Because the Company’s products are considered essential, to date, operations in all segments have been able to remain open during the pandemic despite government-ordered shut-downs and shelter in place orders. The Company’s operations teams maintained strong efficiencies while successfully navigating through numerous supplier shutdowns in fiscal 2020 to continue production without any major supplier-induced line stoppages. The Company also introduced temporary company-wide cost reductions, including salary reductions, furloughs, temporary plant shutdowns, limiting travel, and reducing project costs and other discretionary spending, that reduced pre-tax costs by approximately $120 million for fiscal 2020. Strong execution combined with rapid implementation of temporary cost reductions resulted in earnings per share of $4.72 in fiscal 2020. Although down from earnings per share of $8.21 in fiscal 2019, the results reflected solid performance despite the 18.2% decrease in consolidated net sales. 29 F iscal 2020 results included after-tax charges related to restructuring actions of $17.9 million, a $14.2 million after-tax gain on a property and business interruption insurance recovery, the establishment of a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets in Europe of $11.4 million due to the negative impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on the Access Equipment segment ’s European results, an after-tax charge of $6.5 million associated with debt extinguishment costs incurred in connection with the refinancing of the Company’s senior notes, an after-tax gain of $3.2 million on an arbitration settlement in the Defense segment and an after-tax gain on the sale of a business in the Commercial segment of $2.8 million. In the aggregate, these items accounted for a net $ 15.6 million, or $ 0.22 per share, charge. Fiscal 2019 results included $7.0 million, or $0.10 per share, of charges related to adjustments to the repatriation tax on deeme d repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries required under the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act enacted in the United States in December 2017. Fiscal 2020 also benefited by $0.14 per share compared to fiscal 2019 as a result of share repurchases during fiscal 2020 and 2019. Consolidated net sales in fiscal 2020 decreased $1.53 billion, or 18.2%, to $6.86 billion compared to fiscal 2019 largely as a result of a 38% decrease in sales in the Access Equipment segment as the COVID-19 pandemic significantly impacted demand in this segment. Consolidated operating income was $488.7 million, or 7.1% of sales, in fiscal 2020, a decrease of 38.7% compared to fiscal 2019. The decrease in consolidated operating income was primarily due to the impact of lower gross margin associated with lower sales volume and an adverse product mix, offset in part by favorable material costs, lower incentive compensation accruals and lower spending as a result of temporary costs reductions in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Demand for the Defense segment’s products remained unaffected by the COVID-19 pandemic, which provided stability for the Company during a year in which it experienced lower sales in other segments. During the year, the Company received large orders for both the Joint Light Tactical Vehicle (JLTV) and the Family of Heavy Tactical Vehicle (FHTV) programs that increased the Company’s backlog. The Defense segment’s backlog includes $2.2 billion that the Company expects to deliver in fiscal 2021. While demand in the Defense segment remained strong, it did experience other impacts from the pandemic. The Defense segment successfully navigated through numerous supplier shutdowns by re-sourcing critical components and addressed workforce issues with social distancing and increased cleaning frequency to enable continued production. The Defense segment still faces production challenges due to COVID-19 related supply chain disruptions and workforce availability as the Company enters fiscal 2021, which could negatively impact Defense segment production in fiscal 2021. Fire trucks remain critical assets to first responders battling the COVID-19 pandemic on the frontlines. Pierce’s fire truck orders in fiscal 2020 represented the largest order year the Company’s history, leading to a record year-end backlog for the Fire & Emergency segment of more than $1.1 billion. Despite strong demand, the COVID-19 pandemic has impacted the Fire & Emergency segment in several ways, including supply chain disruptions, workforce availability and delayed customer final inspections that delayed product deliveries. COVID-19 has impacted concrete mixer product line orders as construction sites in some states faced temporary shutdowns early in the pandemic and customers pushed out deliveries. The Commercial segment also faced some order pushouts in the refuse collection vehicle and IMT product lines as well. Similar to the Company’s other segments, the Commercial segment experienced supply chain challenges as suppliers limited their production. The Company has generally been successful in mitigating these challenges to date, but it is possible that parts shortages or workforce availability issues could limit production in fiscal 2021. During fiscal 2020, the Company implemented temporary cost reduction actions which reduced 2020 pre-tax costs by approximately $120 million. Because these cost reductions were temporary in nature, the Company expects these costs to largely return to its expense run rate in fiscal 2021. While the duration and magnitude of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic remain uncertain, the Company took additional permanent cost reduction actions in response to ongoing market softness. In the third quarter of fiscal 2020, the Company announced permanent restructuring actions in the Access Equipment, Commercial and Fire & Emergency segments. These actions included initiating closure of the Medias, Romania factory in the Access Equipment segment, transferring rear-discharge concrete mixer production in the Commercial segment from a facility in Dodge Center, Minnesota to consolidate production in London, Ontario, and reductions in office staffing. The Company expects these actions to yield combined annualized cost savings of $30 million to $35 million once complete. The Company expects to realize approximately $20 million of benefits related of these actions in fiscal 2021 with the full impact of these actions in fiscal 2022. In addition, the Company recently implemented additional permanent cost reductions totaling approximately $15 million for fiscal 30 2021. The Company is carefully balancing its permanent cost reduction s with maintaining the ability to ramp-up production when markets return. The COVID-19 pandemic has continued to drive uncertainty in the cadence of customer demand in both the Access Equipment and Commercial segments. Although strong backlogs in the Defense and Fire & Emergency segments provide good visibility well into fiscal 2021, recent spikes in COVID-19 infection rates are creating workforce availability and supply chain issues, particularly in Wisconsin where a significant portion of the production occurs for the Defense and Fire & Emergency segments. The situation is causing production and labor efficiency risks for these two segments and is also likely to impact final truck inspections by customers in the Fire & Emergency segment. Taking these factors into account, including the ongoing uncertainty of the pandemic, the Company is not providing quantitative expectations for fiscal 2021. The Company is actively engaged in discussions with its key customers in the Access Equipment and Commercial segments to understand their requirements for fiscal 2021. The Company expects softer year over year demand in the first half of fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020. As a result, the Access Equipment segment is once again implementing two-week production shutdowns per month in the United States in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 to better align production with customer requirements. The Company’s balance sheet remains strong, with available liquidity of approximately $1.4 billion at September 30, 2020 consisting of cash of approximately $600 million and availability under the Company’s revolving line of credit of approximately $800 million. The Company expects a modest increase in capital expenditures to approximately $120 million in fiscal 2021. The Company continued to execute its disciplined capital allocation strategy in fiscal 2020. The Company returned $122.6 million of cash to shareholders through the repurchase of approximately 550,853 shares of stock and payment of quarterly dividends. In addition, the Company recently announced an increase in its quarterly dividend rate of 10%, to $0.33, per share beginning in November 2020. This was the Company’s seventh straight year of a double-digit percentage increase in its dividend rate. Results of Operations A detailed discussion of the year-over-year changes from the Company’s fiscal 2018 to fiscal 2019 can be found in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis section in the Company’s fiscal 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed November 19, 2019. Consolidated Net Sales — Two Years Ended September 30, 2020 The following table presents net sales (see definition of net sales contained in Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements) by business segment (in millions): 31 The following table presents net sales by geographic region based on product shipment destination (in millions): Consolidated net sales decreased $1.53 billion, or 18.2%, to $6.86 billion in fiscal 2020 compared to fiscal 2019 as a result of lower sales in the Access Equipment and Commercial segments, largely as a result of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on these segments’ markets. In addition, COVID-19 pandemic-induced production slowdowns contributed to a decline in Fire & Emergency segment sales in fiscal 2020. Higher Defense segment sales due to the continued ramp up of JLTV program sales to the U.S. government helped offset some of the sales declines experienced in the other three segments in fiscal 2020. Access Equipment segment net sales decreased $1.56 billion, or 38.4%, to $2.52 billion in fiscal 2020 compared to fiscal 2019. The decrease in sales was due to lower demand following the global economic downturn as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and, to a lesser extent, rental company customers in North America slowing down their capital expenditures after two years of strong fleet growth. A stronger U.S. dollar reduced sales in the Access Equipment segment in fiscal 2020 by $7 million compared to fiscal 2019. Defense segment net sales increased $230.1 million, or 11.3%, to $2.26 billion in fiscal 2020 compared to fiscal 2019 due to the continued ramp up of JLTV program sales to the U.S. government, offset in part by lower FHTV program sales. Fire & Emergency segment net sales decreased $119.0 million, or 9.4%, to $1.15 billion in fiscal 2020 compared to fiscal 2019 due to decreased production rates in response to workforce availability constraints and supplier parts shortages resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic and favorable international sales timing in the prior year, offset in part by improved pricing. Commercial segment net sales decreased $64.4 million, or 6.3%, to $957.8 million in fiscal 2020 compared to fiscal 2019 due to lower demand following the global economic downturn as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Consolidated Cost of Sales — Two Years Ended September 30, 2020 The following table presents costs of sales by business segment (in millions): Consolidated cost of sales was $5.74 billion, or 83.7% of sales, in fiscal 2020 compared to $6.86 billion, or 81.9% of sales, in fiscal 2019. The 180 basis point increase in cost of sales as a percentage of sales was due to unfavorable fixed manufacturing absorption as a result of lower production volume (100 basis points), adverse product mix (90 basis points) and higher new product development spending (80 basis points), offset in part by favorable material costs (100 basis points). Access Equipment segment cost of sales was $2.09 billion, or 83.1% of sales, in fiscal 2020 compared to $3.29 billion, or 80.7% of sales, in fiscal 2019. The 240 basis point increase in cost of sales as a percentage of sales was due to unfavorable manufacturing absorption as a result of lower production volume (300 basis points) and flat engineering costs on lower sales (100 basis points), offset in part by favorable material costs (130 basis points). 32 Defense segment cost of sales was $1.97 billion, or 87.3% of sales, in fiscal 2020 compared to $1.73 billion, or 85.0% of sales, in fiscal 2019. The 230 basis point increase in cost of sales as a percentage of sales was attributable to larger cumulative catch-up adjustments on contracts in fiscal 2019 (90 basis points), higher new product development spending (80 basis points) and higher warranty costs (50 basis points). In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Defense segment received a very large order for JLTVs. Upon receipt of that order, the Defense segment recorded a cumulative adjustment to the program margin to reflect a near doubling of the number of units on contract for that program. The Defense segment received a JLTV order again in the first quarter fiscal 2020, but the quantity of units ordered was not as large as the first quarter of fiscal 2019. Consequently, the impact of the cumulative adjustment to the program margin was not as large. For comparison, the order in first quarter of fiscal 2020 only increased the quantity of units ordered life to date of the program by slightly more than 25%. Fire & Emergency segment cost of sales was $907.8 million, or 79.1% of sales, in fiscal 2020 compared to $998.0 million, or 78.8% of sales, in fiscal 2019. The 30 basis point increase in cost of sales as a percentage of sales was primarily attributable to adverse product mix (210 basis points), flat engineering costs on lower sales (40 basis points) and manufacturing inefficiencies (20 basis points), offset in part by improved pricing (260 basis points). Commercial segment cost of sales was $788.5 million, or 82.3% of sales, in fiscal 2020 compared to $862.4 million, or 84.4% of sales, in fiscal 2019. The 210 basis point decrease in cost of sales as a percentage of sales was largely due to favorable material costs (240 basis points) and the business interruption insurance recovery in fiscal 2020 associated with the weather-related partial roof collapse at one of its manufacturing facilities in February 2019 (110 basis points), offset in part by adverse product mix (70 basis points). Intersegment eliminations and other includes intercompany profit on intersegment sales not yet sold to third party customers. Consolidated Operating Income (Loss) — Two Years Ended September 30, 2020 The following table presents operating income (loss) by business segment (in millions): Consolidated operating income decreased $308.3 million, or 38.7%, to $488.7 million, or 7.1% of sales, in fiscal 2020 compared to $797.0 million, or 9.5% of sales, in fiscal 2019. The decrease in operating income was primarily due to the impact of lower gross margin associated with lower sales volume ($356 million), adverse product mix ($51 million), unfavorable fixed manufacturing absorption as a result of lower production volume ($31 million), lower cumulative catch-up adjustments on contract margins in the current year compared with the prior year ($29 million) and restructuring-related costs ($23 million) in fiscal 2020, offset in part by favorable material costs ($66 million), lower incentive compensation accruals ($48 million), lower spending as a result of temporary cost reductions in response to the COVID-19 pandemic ($37 million) and lower intangible asset amortization ($26 million). Access Equipment segment operating income decreased $304.0 million, or 60.5%, to $198.6 million, or 7.9% of sales, in fiscal 2020 compared to $502.6 million, or 12.3% of sales, in fiscal 2019. The decrease in operating income was primarily due to lower gross margin associated with lower sales volume ($389 million) and unfavorable fixed manufacturing absorption as a result of lower production volume ($37 million), offset in part by favorable material costs ($33 million), lower incentive compensation accruals ($28 million), lower spending as a result of temporary cost reductions in response to the COVID-19 pandemic ($27 million) and lower intangible asset amortization ($26 million). 33 Defense segment operating income de creased $19.8 million, or 9.7%, to $183.5 million, or 8.1% of sales, in fiscal 2020 compared to $203.3 million, or 10.0% of sales, in fiscal 2019. The decrease in operating income was primarily a result of lower cumulative catch-up adjustments on contract margins in the current year compared with the prior year ($29 million), higher engineering & proposal spending ($22 million) and higher warranty costs ($13 million), offset in part by higher gross margin associated with higher sales volume ($47 million). Changes in estimates on contracts accounted for under the cost-to-cost method increased Defense segment operating income by $16.2 million and $44.7 million in fiscal 2020 and 2019, respectively. These changes were primarily a result of adding new orders received during the respective periods to the estimate at completion calculations. Fire & Emergency segment operating income decreased $25.4 million, or 14.4%, to $151.1 million, or 13.2% of sales, in fiscal 2020 compared to $176.5 million, or 13.9% of sales, in fiscal 2019. The decrease in operating income was largely a result of lower gross margin associated with lower sales volume ($42 million) and adverse product mix ($24 million), offset in part by improved pricing ($40 million). Commercial segment operating income increased $14.4 million, or 21.6%, to $81.2 million, or 8.5% of sales, in fiscal 2020 compared to $66.8 million, or 6.5% of sales, in fiscal 2019. The increase in operating income was primarily due to favorable material costs ($23 million), the lack of business disruption costs caused by the weather-related roof collapse at one of its manufacturing facilities in February 2019 ($13 million) and the business interruption insurance recovery associated with the weather-related partial roof collapse ($11 million), offset in part by lower gross margin associated with lower sales volume ($16 million) and adverse product mix ($16 million). Corporate operating costs decreased $26.5 million to $125.7 million in fiscal 2020 compared to fiscal 2019. The decrease in corporate operating costs was primarily due to lower management incentive expense ($12 million), lower spending as a result of temporary cost reductions in response to the COVID-19 pandemic and lower new product development spending ($4 million). Consolidated selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $62.9 million, or 9.2%, to $620.6 million, or 9.1% of sales, in fiscal 2020 compared to $683.5 million, or 8.2% of sales, in fiscal 2019. The decrease in consolidated selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily a result of lower management incentive compensation expense ($48 million) and lower spending as a result of temporary cost reductions in response to the COVID-19 pandemic ($37 million). Non-Operating Income (Expense) — Two Years Ended September 30, 2020 Interest expense, net of interest income increased $4.2 million to $51.8 million in fiscal 2020 compared to fiscal 2019. Fiscal 2020 included $8.5 million of debt extinguishment costs incurred in connection with the refinancing of the Company’s senior notes and $3.3 million of interest income related to the favorable arbitration settlement in the Defense segment. Net miscellaneous income of $2.2 million and $1.3 million in fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019, respectively, primarily related to gains and losses on investments held in a rabbi trust, net foreign currency transaction gains and losses, and non-service costs of the Company’s pension plans. Fiscal 2020 also included $6.2 million of income on the insurance recovery at the Commercial segment. Provision for Income Taxes — Two Years Ended September 30, 2020 The Company recorded income tax expense of $112.8 million, or 25.7% of pre-tax income, in fiscal 2020 compared to $171.3 million, or 22.8% of pre-tax income, in fiscal 2019. Fiscal 2020 results were adversely impacted by discrete tax charges of $8.0 million, including tax valuation reserves of $11.4 million recorded against certain foreign net deferred tax assets in Europe (260 basis points). Fiscal 2019 results were adversely impacted by discrete tax charges of $1.9 million, including $7.0 million of charges for uncertain tax position reserves related to a repatriation tax on deemed repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries created by tax reform in the United States (the “Transition Tax”) (90 basis points), offset in part by favorable share-based compensation tax benefits of $1.5 million (20 basis points), $1.5 million of tax benefits related to state tax matters (20 basis points) and a $1.4 million tax benefit related to a foreign provision-to-return adjustment (20 basis points). See Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a reconciliation of the effective tax rate compared to the U.S. statutory tax rate. 34 On December 22, 2017, the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Reform Act”) was signed into law. The Tax Reform Act significantly revised the U.S. corporate income tax regime by, among other things, lowering the U.S. corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018, repealing the deduction for domestic production activities, implementing a territorial tax system and imposing a repatriation tax on deemed repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries. As a result of the Tax Reform Act, the Company recorded a $7.0 million charge for changes to uncertain tax position reserves related to the Transition Tax liability in fiscal 2019. Equity in Earnings of Unconsolidated Affiliates — Two Years Ended September 30, 2020 Losses of unconsolidated affiliates of $1.8 million in fiscal 2020 primarily represented the Company’s equity interest in a Commercial segment entity in Mexico. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company generates significant capital resources from operating activities, which is the expected primary source of funding for the Company. The Company expects cash flow from operations will be sufficient to fund expenditures for property, plant and equipment in fiscal 2021. The Company expects to utilize approximately $120 million of cash during fiscal 2021 for capital spending needs. In addition to cash generated from operations, the Company had other sources of liquidity available at September 30, 2020, including $582.9 million of cash and cash equivalents and $790.1 million of unused available capacity under the Revolving Credit Facility (as defined in “Liquidity”). Borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility could, as discussed below, be limited by the financial covenants contained in the Credit Agreement (as defined in “Liquidity”). These sources of liquidity are needed to fund the Company’s working capital requirements, capital expenditures, dividends, share repurchases, debt service requirements and acquisitions. The Company continues to expect to have sufficient liquidity to finance its operations over the next twelve months. Financial Condition at September 30, 2020 The Company’s capitalization was as follows (in millions): The Company’s ratio of debt to total capitalization of 22.4% at September 30, 2020 remained within its targeted range. Consolidated days sales outstanding (defined as “Trade Receivables” at quarter end divided by “Net Sales” for the most recent quarter multiplied by 90 days) was 41 days at September 30, 2020, compared to 40 days at September 30, 2019. Days sales outstanding for segments other than the Defense segment was 50 days at September 30, 2020, up slightly from 49 days at September 30, 2019. Consolidated inventory turns (defined as “Cost of Sales” on an annualized basis, divided by the average “Inventory” at the past five quarter end periods) decreased from 5.2 times at September 30, 2019 to 3.8 times at September 30, 2020 primarily as a result of higher inventory levels in the Access Equipment segment stemming from the sudden decrease in customer demand as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and higher levels of critical raw materials in all segments to mitigate shortages in the event of a supplier shutdown due to the COVID-19 pandemic. A detailed discussion of the year-over-year changes in cash flows from the Company’s fiscal 2018 and 2019 can be found in the Management Discussion and Analysis section in the Company’s fiscal 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed November 19, 2019. 35 Operating Cash Flows Operating activities provided $327.3 million of cash during fiscal 2020 compared to $568.3 million during fiscal 2019. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities in fiscal 2020 compared to fiscal 2019 was primarily due to a decrease in consolidated net income of $254.9 million. Investing Cash Flows Investing activities used cash of $77.6 million during fiscal 2020 compared to $153.0 million in fiscal 2019. Additions to property, plant and equipment of $112.3 million in fiscal 2020 reflected a decrease in capital spending of $35.3 million compared to fiscal 2019. Capital spending returned to more normal levels in fiscal 2020 after the construction of the Company’s new global headquarters in Oshkosh, Wisconsin in fiscal 2019, although the Company reduced capital spending when the COVID-19 pandemic struck. The Company anticipates that it will spend $120 million on capital expenditures in fiscal 2021. In addition, a customer in the Access Equipment segment purchased a large amount of equipment in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 that the customer was previously renting. This transaction increased proceeds received from the sale of equipment held for rental by $26.8 million in fiscal 2020 as compared to fiscal 2019. Financing Cash Flows Financing activities used cash of $115.5 million in fiscal 2020 compared to $421.6 million in fiscal 2019. The decrease in cash utilized for financing activities was due to a decrease in Common Stock repurchases under the authorization approved by the Company’s Board of Directors as the Company paused repurchases in fiscal 2020 to preserve liquidity when the COVID-19 pandemic struck. In fiscal 2020, the Company repurchased 550,853 shares of its Common Stock at an aggregate cost of $40.8 million. In fiscal 2019, the Company repurchased 4,866,532 shares of its Common Stock at an aggregate cost of $350.1 million. The Company maintains a long-term strategy of returning approximately 50% of its free cash flow (defined as “cash flows from operations” less “additions to property, plant and equipment” less “additions to equipment held for rental” plus “proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment” plus “proceeds from sale of equipment held for rental”) to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases. As of September 30, 2020, the Company had approximately 7.5 million shares of Common Stock remaining under the repurchase authorization. Liquidity Senior Credit Agreement In April 2018, the Company entered into a Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement with various lenders (the “Credit Agreement”). The Credit Agreement provides for (i) an unsecured revolving credit facility (the “Revolving Credit Facility”) that matures in April 2023 with an initial maximum aggregate amount of availability of $850 million and (ii) an unsecured $325 million term loan (the “Term Loan”) due in quarterly principal installments of $4.1 million commencing as of September 30, 2019 with a balloon payment of $264.1 million due at maturity in April 2023. As of September 30, 2020, the Company has prepaid all required quarterly principal installments and $39.1 million of the balloon payment on the Term Loan. At September 30, 2020, outstanding letters of credit of $59.9 million reduced available capacity under the Revolving Credit Facility to $790.1 million. Under the Credit Agreement, the Company is obligated to pay (i) an unused commitment fee ranging from 0.125% to 0.275% per annum of the average daily unused portion of the aggregate revolving credit commitments under the Credit Agreement and (ii) a fee ranging from 0.563% to 1.75% per annum of the maximum amount available to be drawn for each letter of credit issued and outstanding under the Credit Agreement. Borrowings under the Credit Agreement bear interest at a variable rate equal to (i) LIBOR plus a specified margin, which may be adjusted upward or downward depending on whether certain criteria are satisfied, or (ii) for dollar-denominated loans only, the base rate (which is the highest of (a) the administrative agent’s prime rate, (b) the federal funds rate plus 0.50% or (c) the sum of 1% plus one-month LIBOR) plus a specified margin, which may be adjusted upward or downward depending on whether certain criteria are satisfied. 36 Covenant Compliance The Credit Agreement contains various restrictions and covenants, including requirements that the Company maintain certain financial ratios at prescribed levels and restrictions, subject to certain exceptions, on the ability of the Company and certain of its subsidiaries to consolidate or merge, create liens, incur additional indebtedness, and dispose of substantially all assets. The Credit Agreement contains the following financial covenants: • Leverage Ratio: A maximum leverage ratio (defined as, with certain adjustments, the ratio of the Company’s consolidated indebtedness to consolidated net income for the previous four quarters before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, non-cash charges and certain other items (EBITDA)) as of the last day of any fiscal quarter of 3.75 to 1.00. • Interest Coverage Ratio: A minimum interest coverage ratio (defined as, with certain adjustments, the ratio of the Company’s consolidated EBITDA to the Company’s consolidated cash interest expense for the previous four quarters) as of the last day of any fiscal quarter of 2.50 to 1.00. The Company was in compliance with the financial covenants contained in the Credit Agreement as of September 30, 2020 and expects to be able to meet the financial covenants contained in the Credit Agreement over the next twelve months. Senior Notes In March 2015, the Company issued $250.0 million of 5.375% unsecured senior notes due March 1, 2025 (the “2025 Senior Notes”). In May 2018, the Company issued $300.0 million of 4.600% unsecured senior notes due May 15, 2028 (the “2028 Senior Notes”). On February 26, 2020, the Company issued $300.0 million of 3.100% unsecured senior notes due March 1, 2030 (the “2030 Senior Notes”) at a discount of $1.2 million. The Company used a portion of the net proceeds from the sale of the 2030 Senior Notes to redeem all of the outstanding 2025 Senior Notes at a premium of $6.7 million. The Company used the remaining net proceeds to pre-pay all outstanding future quarterly principal installments, as well as pay down a portion of the balloon payment due at maturity on the Term Loan. The Company recognized an approximately $8.5 million loss associated with the 2030 Senior Notes transaction, comprised of unamortized debt issuance costs and call premium costs. Expenses related to the transaction are included in interest expense. Additionally, approximately $2.9 million of debt issuance costs were capitalized to long-term debt in connection with the transaction. The 2028 Senior Notes and the 2030 Senior Notes were issued pursuant to an indenture (the “Indenture”) between the Company and a trustee. The Indenture contains customary affirmative and negative covenants. The Company has the option to redeem the 2028 and 2030 Senior Notes at any time for a premium. Refer to Note 14 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Company’s debt as of September 30, 2020. 37 Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Following is a summary of the Company’s contractual obligations and payments due by period following September 30, 2020 (in millions): (1) Interest was calculated based upon the interest rate in effect on September 30, 2020. (2) The amounts for purchase obligations included above represent all obligations to purchase goods or services under agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms. (3) Due to the uncertainty of the timing of settlement with taxing authorities, the Company is unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the period of cash settlement of unrecognized tax benefits for the remaining uncertain tax liabilities. Therefore, $79.8 million of unrecognized tax benefits as of September 30, 2020 have been excluded from the Contractual Obligations table above. See Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Company’s unrecognized tax benefits as of September 30, 2020. (4) Represents other long-term liabilities on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet, including the current portion of these liabilities. The projected timing of cash flows associated with these obligations is based on management’s estimates, which are based largely on historical experience. This amount also includes all liabilities under the Company’s pension and other postretirement benefit plans. See Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding these liabilities and the plan assets available to satisfy them. The following is a summary of the Company’s commitments by period following September 30, 2020 (in millions): The Company incurs contingent limited recourse liabilities with respect to customer financing activities primarily in the Access Equipment segment. For additional information relative to guarantees, see Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 38 Critical Accounting Policies The Company’s significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company considers the following policy to be the most critical in understanding the judgments that are involved in the preparation of the Company’s consolidated financial statements and the uncertainties that could impact the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Revenue Recognition. The Company recognizes revenue in accordance with ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers. Accordingly, revenue is recognized when control of the goods or services promised under a contract is transferred to the customer either at a point in time (e.g., upon delivery) or over time (e.g., as the Company performs under the contract) in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for the goods or services. The Company accounts for a contract when it has approval and commitment from both parties, the rights and payment terms of the parties are identified, the contract has commercial substance and collectability of consideration is probable. If collectability is not probable, the sale is deferred until collection becomes probable or payment is received. Approximately 39% of the Company’s revenues were recognized under the percentage-of-completion accounting method in fiscal 2020. Contracts are reviewed to determine whether there is one or multiple performance obligations. A performance obligation is a promise to transfer a distinct good or service to a customer and represents the unit of accounting for revenue recognition. For contracts with multiple performance obligations, the expected consideration (e.g., the transaction price) is allocated to each performance obligation identified in the contract based on the relative standalone selling price of each performance obligation, which is determinable based on observable standalone selling prices or is estimated using an expected cost plus a margin approach. Revenue is then recognized for the transaction price allocated to the performance obligation when control of the promised goods or services underlying the performance obligation is transferred. When the amount of consideration allocated to a performance obligation through this process differs from the invoiced amount, it results in a contract asset or liability. The identification of performance obligations within a contract requires significant judgment. The following is a description of the primary activities from which the Company generates revenue. Access Equipment, Fire & Emergency and Commercial segments revenue The Company derives revenue in the Access Equipment, Fire & Emergency and Commercial segments (non-defense segments) through the sale of machinery, vehicles and related aftermarket parts and services. Customers include distributors and end-users. Contracts with customers generally exist upon the approval of a quote and/or purchase order by the Company and customer. Each contract is also assessed at inception to determine whether it is necessary to combine the contract with other contracts. The Company’s non-defense segments offer various customer incentives within contracts, such as sales and marketing rebates, volume discounts and interest subsidies, some of which are variable and therefore must be estimated by the Company. Transaction prices may also be impacted by rights of return, primarily within the aftermarket parts business, which requires the Company to record a liability and asset representing its rights and obligations in the event a return occurs. The estimated return liability is based on historical experience rates. Revenue for performance obligations consisting of machinery, vehicles and after-market parts (together, “product”) is recognized when the customer obtains control of the product, which typically occurs at a point in time, based on the shipping terms within the contract. In the Commercial segment, concrete mixer and refuse collection products are sold on both Company owned chassis and customer owned chassis. When performing work on a customer owned chassis, revenue is recognized over time based on the cost-to-cost method, as the Company is enhancing a customer owned asset. All non-defense segments offer aftermarket services related to their respective products such as repair, refurbishment and maintenance (together, “services”). The Company generally recognizes revenue on service performance obligations over time using the method that results in the most faithful depiction of transfer of control to the customer. Non-defense segments also offer extended warranty coverage as an option on most products. The Company considers extended warranties to be service-type warranties and therefore a performance obligation. Service-type warranties differ from the Company’s standard, or assurance-type warranties, as they are generally separately priced and negotiated as part of the contract and/or provide additional coverage beyond what the customer or customer group that purchases the product would receive under an assurance-type warranty. The Company has concluded that its extended warranties are stand-ready obligations to perform and 39 therefore recognizes revenue ratably over the coverage period. The Company also provides a standard warranty on its products and services at no additional cost to its customers in most instances. Defense segment revenue The majority of the Company’s Defense segment net sales are derived through long-term contracts with the U.S. government to design, develop, manufacture or modify defense products. These contracts, which also include those under the U.S. Government-sponsored Foreign Military Sales (FMS) program, accounted for approximately 98% of Defense segment revenue in fiscal 2020. Contracts with Defense segment customers are generally fixed-price or cost-reimbursement type contracts. Under fixed-price contracts, the price paid to the Company is generally not adjusted to reflect the Company’s actual costs except for costs incurred as a result of contract modifications. Certain fixed-price contracts include an incentive component under which the price paid to the Company is subject to adjustment based on the actual costs incurred. Under cost-reimbursement contracts, the price paid to the Company is determined based on the allowable costs incurred to perform plus a fee. The fee component of cost-reimbursement contracts can be fixed based on negotiations at contract inception or can vary based on performance against target costs established at the time of contract inception. The Company also designs, develops, manufactures or modifies defense products for international customers through Direct Commercial Sale contracts. The Defense segment supports its products through the sale of aftermarket parts and services. Aftermarket contracts can range from long-term supply agreements to ad hoc purchase orders for replacement parts. The Company evaluates the promised goods and services within Defense segment contracts at inception to identify performance obligations. The goods and services in Defense segment contracts are typically not distinct from one another as they are generally customized and have complex inter-relationships and the Company is responsible for overall management of the contract. As a result, Defense segment contracts are typically accounted for as a single performance obligation. The Defense segment provides standard warranties for its products for periods that typically range from one to two years. These assurance-type warranties typically cannot be purchased separately and do not meet the criteria to be considered a performance obligation. The Company determines the transaction price for each contract at inception based on the consideration that it expects to receive for the goods and services promised under the contract. This determination is made based on the Company’s current rights, excluding the impact of any subsequent contract modifications (including unexercised options) until they become legally enforceable. Contract modifications frequently occur within the Defense segment. The Company evaluates each modification to identify changes that impact price or scope of its contracts, which are then assessed to determine if the modification should be accounted for as an adjustment to an existing contract or as a separate contract. Contract modifications within the Defense segment are generally accounted for as a cumulative effect adjustment to existing contracts as they are not distinct from the goods and services within the existing contract. For Defense segment contracts that include a variable component of the sale price, the Company estimates variable consideration. Variable consideration is included within the contract’s transaction price to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal of revenue will not occur. The Company evaluates its estimates of variable consideration on an ongoing basis and any adjustments are accounted for as changes in estimates in the period identified. Common forms of variable consideration within Defense segment contracts include cost reimbursement contracts that contain incentives, customer reimbursement rights and regulatory or customer negotiated penalties tied to contract performance. The Company recognizes revenue on Defense segment contracts as performance obligations are satisfied and control of the underlying goods and services is transferred to the customer. In making this evaluation, the Defense segment considers contract terms, payment terms and whether there is an alternative future use for the good or service. Through this process the Company has concluded that substantially all of the Defense segment’s performance obligations, including a majority of performance obligations for aftermarket goods and services, transfer to the customer continuously during the contract term and therefore revenue is recognized over time. For U.S. government and FMS program contracts, this determination is supported by the inclusion of clauses within contracts that allow the customer to terminate a contract at its convenience. When the clause is present, the Company is entitled to compensation for the work performed through the date of notification at a price that reflects actual costs plus a reasonable margin in exchange for transferring its work in process to the customer. For contracts that do not contain termination for convenience provisions, the Company is generally able to support the continuous transfer of control determination as a result of the customized nature of its goods and services and contractual rights. 40 Critical Accounting Estimates “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” is based on the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP). The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect reported amounts and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates and updates its estimates. Management employs judgment in making its estimates but they are based on historical experience and currently available information and various other assumptions that the Company believes to be reasonable under the circumstances. The results of these estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Management believes that its judgment is applied consistently and produces financial information that fairly depicts the results of operations for all periods presented. Estimate-at-Completion (EAC). The Company has concluded that control of substantially all of the Defense segment’s performance obligations transfers to the customer continuously during the contract term and therefore revenue is recognized over time. The Defense segment recognizes revenue on its performance obligations that are satisfied over time by measuring progress using the cost-to-cost method of percentage-of-completion because it best depicts the transfer of control to the customer. Under the cost-to-cost method of percentage-of-completion, the Defense segment measures progress based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to total estimated costs for the performance obligations. Due to the size and nature of these contracts, the estimation of total revenues and costs is highly complicated and judgmental. The Company must make assumptions regarding expected increases in wages and employee benefits, productivity and availability of labor, material costs and allocated fixed costs. Each contract is evaluated at contract inception to identify risks and estimate revenue and costs. In performing this evaluation, the Defense segment considers risks of contract performance such as technical requirements, schedule, duration and key contract dependencies. These considerations are then factored into the Company’s estimated revenue and costs. If a loss is expected on a performance obligation, the complete estimated loss is recorded in the period in which the loss is identified. Preliminary contract estimates are subject to change throughout the duration of the contract as additional information becomes available that impacts risks and estimated revenue and costs. Changes to production costs, overhead rates, learning curve and/or supplier performance can also impact these estimates. These estimates are highly judgmental, particularly the non-production costs currently being incurred on the JLTV and FMTV A2 contracts. The Company recognizes changes in estimated sales or costs and the resulting profit or loss on a cumulative basis. In addition, as contract modifications (e.g., new orders) are received, they are evaluated to determine if they represent a separate contract or the impact on the existing contract. As of September 30, 2020, the estimated remaining costs on the JLTV and FMTV A2 contracts represent the majority of the total estimated costs to complete in the Defense segment. Changes in estimates on contracts accounted for under the cost-to-cost method on prior year revenues increased Defense segment operating income by $16.2 million in fiscal 2020 and $44.7 million in fiscal 2019. Impairment of Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the assets might be impaired. Such circumstances include a significant adverse change in the business climate for one of the Company’s reporting units, a material negative change in relationships with significant customers, or strategic decisions made in response to economic and competitive conditions. The Company performs its annual review at the beginning of the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. The Company evaluates the recoverability of goodwill by estimating the fair value of the businesses to which the goodwill relates. A reporting unit is an operating segment or, under certain circumstances, a component of an operating segment that constitutes a business. When the fair value of the reporting unit is less than the carrying value of the reporting unit, a further analysis is performed to measure and recognize the amount of the impairment loss, if any. Impairment losses, limited to the carrying value of goodwill, represent the excess of the carrying amount of a reporting unit’s goodwill over the implied fair value of that goodwill. In evaluating the recoverability of goodwill, it is necessary to estimate the fair value of the reporting units. The estimate of the fair value of the reporting units is generally determined on the basis of discounted future cash flows and a market approach. In estimating the fair value, management must make assumptions and projections regarding such items as the Company performance and profitability under existing contracts, its success in securing future business, the appropriate risk-adjusted interest rate used to discount the projected cash flows, and terminal value growth and earnings rates. The assumptions used in 41 the estimate of fair value are generally consistent with the past performance of each reporting unit and are also consistent with the projections and assumptions that are used in current operating plans. Such assumptions are subject to change as a result of changing economic and competitive conditions. The rate used to discount estimated cash flows is a rate corresponding to the Company’s cost of capital, adjusted for risk where appropriate, and is dependent upon interest rates at a point in time. To assess the reasonableness of the discounted projected cash flows, the Company compares the sum of its reporting units’ fair value to the Company’s market capitalization and calculates an implied control premium (the excess of the sum of the reporting units’ fair values over the market capitalization). The reasonableness of this control premium is evaluated by comparing it to control premiums for recent comparable market transactions. Consistent with prior years, the Company weighted the income approach more heavily (75%) as the Company believes the income approach more accurately considers long-term fluctuations in the U.S. and European construction markets than the market approach. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and management’s judgment in applying them to the analysis of goodwill impairment. It is possible that assumptions underlying the impairment analysis will change in such a manner to cause further impairment of goodwill, which could have a material impact on the Company’s results of operations. The Company completed the required goodwill impairment test as of July 1, 2020. The Company identified no indicators of goodwill impairment in the test performed as of July 1, 2020. In order to evaluate the sensitivity of any quantitative fair value calculations on the goodwill impairment test, a hypothetical 10% decrease to the fair values of any reporting unit was calculated. This hypothetical 10% decrease would still result in excess fair value over carrying value for the reporting units as of July 1, 2020. The Company evaluates the recoverability of indefinite-lived trade names based upon a “relief from royalty” method. This methodology determines the fair value of each trade name through use of a discounted cash flow model that incorporates an estimated “royalty rate” the Company would be able to charge a third party for the use of the particular trade name. In determining the estimated future cash flows, the Company considers projected future sales, a fair market royalty rate for each applicable trade name and an appropriate discount rate to measure the present value of the anticipated cash flows. At July 1, 2020, the Company had approximately $1.39 billion of goodwill and indefinite-lived purchased intangibles, of which 90% were concentrated within the JLG reporting unit in the Access Equipment segment. Assumptions utilized in the impairment analysis are highly judgmental. While the Company currently believes that an impairment of intangible assets at JLG is unlikely, events and conditions that could result in the impairment of intangibles at JLG include a sharp decline in economic conditions, significantly increased pricing pressure on JLG’s margins or other factors leading to reductions in expected long-term sales or profitability at JLG. New Accounting Standards See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the impact of new accounting standards on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. Customers and Backlog Sales to the U.S. government comprised approximately 35% of the Company’s net sales in fiscal 2020. No other single customer accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s net sales for this period. A substantial majority of the Company’s net sales are derived from the fulfillment of customer orders that are received prior to commencing production. The Company’s backlog as of September 30, 2020 increased 10.4% to $4.58 billion compared to $4.14 billion at September 30, 2019. Access Equipment segment backlog decreased 6.0% to $366.7 million at September 30, 2020 compared to $390.1 million at September 30, 2019. Defense segment backlog increased 12.9% to $2.81 billion at September 30, 2020 compared to $2.49 billion at September 30, 2019 primarily due to the receipt of JLTV orders and higher international and parts backlog. Fire & Emergency segment backlog increased 15.2% to $1.12 billion at September 30, 2020 compared to $970.1 million at September 30, 2019. The Fire & Emergency segment experienced strong order growth in the first half of fiscal 2020 resulting in a record year-end backlog for the segment. Commercial segment backlog decreased 4.6% to $283.1 million at September 30, 2020 compared to $296.7 million at September 30, 2019, primarily as a result of lower refuse collection vehicle backlog as the COVID-19 pandemic has reduced demand for non-residential refuse collection vehicles. 42 Reported backlog excludes purchase options and announced orders for which definitive contracts have not been executed. Backlog information and comparisons thereof as of different dates may not be accurate indicators of future sales or the ratio of the Company’s future sales to the DoD versus its sales to other customers. Approximately 14 % of the Company’s September 30, 2020 backlog is not expected to be filled in fiscal 2021. Financial Market Risk The Company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, certain commodity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. To reduce the risk from changes in foreign currency exchange and interest rates, the Company selectively uses financial instruments. All hedging transactions are authorized and executed pursuant to clearly defined policies and procedures, which strictly prohibit the use of financial instruments for speculative purposes. Interest Rate Risk. The Company’s earnings exposure related to adverse movements in interest rates is primarily derived from outstanding floating rate debt instruments that are indexed to short-term market interest rates. In this regard, changes in U.S. and off-shore interest rates affect interest payable on the Company’s borrowings under its Credit Agreement. Based on debt outstanding at September 30, 2020, a 100 basis point increase or decrease in the average cost of the Company’s variable rate debt would increase or decrease annual pre-tax interest expense by approximately $2.3 million. The table below provides information about the Company’s debt obligations, which are sensitive to changes in interest rates (dollars in millions): The table presents principal cash flows and related weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates. Weighted-average variable rates are based on implied forward rates in the yield curve at the reporting date. Commodity Price Risk. The Company is a purchaser of certain commodities, including steel, aluminum and composites. In addition, the Company is a purchaser of components and parts containing various commodities, including steel, aluminum, rubber and others which are integrated into the Company’s end products. The Company generally buys these commodities and components based upon market prices that are established with the vendor as part of the purchase process. The Company does not use commodity financial instruments to hedge commodity prices. The Company generally obtains firm quotations from its significant components’ suppliers for its orders under firm, fixed-price contracts in its Defense segment. In the Company’s Access Equipment, Fire & Emergency and Commercial segments, the Company generally attempts to obtain firm pricing from most of its suppliers, consistent with backlog requirements and/or forecasted annual sales. To the extent that commodity prices increase and the Company does not have firm pricing from its suppliers, or its suppliers are not able to honor such prices, then the Company may experience margin declines to the extent it is not able to increase selling prices of its products. Foreign Currency Risk. The Company’s operations consist of manufacturing in the U.S., Mexico, Canada, France, Australia, Romania, the United Kingdom and China and sales and limited vehicle body mounting activities on five continents. International sales comprised approximately 14% of overall net sales in fiscal 2020, of which approximately 51% involved exports from the U.S. The majority of export sales in fiscal 2020 were denominated in U.S. dollars. As a result of the manufacture and sale of the Company’s products in foreign markets, the Company’s earnings are affected by fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies in which certain of the Company’s transactions are denominated as compared to the value of the U.S. dollar. The Company’s operating results are principally exposed to changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the European currencies, primarily the Euro and the U.K. pound sterling, changes between the U.S. dollar and the Australian dollar, changes between the U.S. dollar and the Brazilian real, changes between the U.S. dollar and the Mexican peso and changes between the U.S. dollar and the Chinese renminbi. 43 ITEM 7A.