 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS The Company Oshkosh Corporation is a leading designer, manufacturer and marketer of access equipment, specialty vehicles and truck bodies for the primary markets of access equipment, defense, fire & emergency, refuse hauling, concrete placement as well as airport services. Oshkosh engineers vehicles and equipment that move industries forward. Each of our products and technologies is designed with customers and end-users in mind, from the four-wheel drive system that the Company patented in 1917 to advances in electrification, autonomy & active safety and intelligent products. The Company comprises 10 brands and maintains four reportable segments for financial reporting purposes: Access Equipment, Defense, Fire & Emergency and Commercial, which comprised 36%, 33%, 17% and 14%, respectively, of the Company’s consolidated net sales in fiscal 2020. Oshkosh’s leading brands include a wide range of products to serve a diverse group of industries. This allows the Company to leverage innovations and efficiencies across the enterprise, including supply chain, materials integration, manufacturing processes, facilities and cross portfolio innovation creating a company that is a truly different integrated global industrial. The Company made approximately 35%, 24% and 22% of its net sales for fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively, to the U.S. government, a substantial majority of which were under multi-year contracts and programs in the defense vehicle market. See Note 23 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for financial information related to the Company’s business segments. JLG, a global designer and manufacturer of aerial work platforms and telehandlers used in a wide variety of construction, industrial, institutional and general maintenance applications to safely position workers and materials at elevated heights, forms the foundation of the Company’s Access Equipment segment. JLG’s customer base includes equipment rental companies, construction contractors, manufacturing companies and home improvement centers. The Access Equipment segment also includes Jerr-Dan-branded tow trucks (wreckers) and roll-back vehicle carriers (carriers) sold to towing companies. The Company’s Defense segment has designed, manufactured and sold military tactical wheeled vehicles to the DoD for more than 90 years. In 1981, Oshkosh Defense was awarded the first Heavy Expanded Mobility Tactical Truck (HEMTT) contract for the DoD, and thereafter, it developed into the DoD’s leading supplier of severe-duty, heavy-payload tactical trucks. Since that time, Oshkosh Defense has broadened its product offerings to become the leading manufacturer of severe-duty, heavy- and medium-payload tactical trucks for the DoD, manufacturing vehicles that perform a variety of demanding tasks such as hauling tanks, missile systems, ammunition, fuel, troops and cargo for combat units. In 2015, Oshkosh Defense solidified its position in the light-payload tactical wheeled vehicle category by capturing the DoD’s Joint Light Tactical Vehicle (JLTV) program. The Company is currently in the full rate production phase of this eight-year, $6.7 billion contract for 16,901 of these technologically enhanced vehicles and related sustainment services. Recently, the Army authorized an increase to the contract ceiling from 16,901 vehicles to 23,163 vehicles. The Company’s Fire & Emergency segment designs and manufactures custom and commercial firefighting vehicles and equipment, aircraft rescue and firefighting (ARFF) vehicles, snow removal vehicles, simulators and other emergency vehicles primarily sold to fire departments, airports and other governmental units and broadcast vehicles sold to broadcasters and television stations. The Company’s Commercial segment designs and manufactures refuse collection vehicles and related components sold to commercial and municipal waste haulers, rear- and front-discharge concrete mixer vehicles and related components sold to ready-mix companies and field service vehicles and truck-mounted cranes sold to mining, construction and other companies. Competitive Strengths The following competitive strengths support the Company’s business strategy: Strong Market Positions. The Company has developed strong market positions and brand recognition in its core businesses, which it attributes to its reputation for quality products, advanced engineering, market leading innovation, vehicle performance, reliability, customer service and low total cost of ownership. The Company maintains leading market shares in almost all of its businesses and is the sole-source supplier of a number of vehicles to the DoD. 1 Diversified Product Offerings. The Company believes its broad product offerings and target markets serve to diversify its sources of revenues, mitigate the impact of economic cycles and provide multiple platforms for potential organic growth and acquisitions. The Company’s product offerings provide extensive opportunities to bundl e products for sale to customers, co-location of manufacturing, leveraging purchasing power and sharing technology within and between segments. For each of its target markets, the Company has developed or acquired a broad product line in an effort to become a single-source provider of specialty vehicles, vehicle bodies, parts and service and related products to its customers. In addition, the Company has established an extensive domestic and international distribution network for specialty vehicles and vehicle bodies tailored to each market. Quality Products and Customer Service. The Company has developed strong brand recognition for its products as a result of its commitment to meet the stringent product quality and reliability requirements of its customers in the specialty vehicle and vehicle body markets it serves. The Company frequently achieves premium pricing due to the quality, durability and low total cost of ownership of its products. The Company also provides high quality customer service through its extensive parts and service support programs, which are generally available to customers 365 days a year in all product lines throughout the Company’s distribution network. Innovative and Proprietary Components. The Company’s advanced design and engineering capabilities have contributed to the development of innovative and/or proprietary, severe-duty components that enhance vehicle performance, reduce manufacturing costs and strengthen customer relationships. The Company’s advanced design and engineering capabilities have also allowed it to integrate many of these components across various segments and product lines, which enhances its ability to compete for new business and reduces its costs to manufacture its products compared to manufacturers who simply assemble purchased components. Flexible and Efficient Manufacturing. The Company believes it has competitive advantages over larger vehicle manufacturers in its specialty vehicle markets due to its product quality, manufacturing flexibility, vertical integration, purchasing power in specialty vehicle components and tailored distribution networks. In addition, the Company believes it has competitive advantages over smaller vehicle and vehicle body manufacturers due to its relatively higher volumes of similar products that permit the use of moving assembly lines and allow it to leverage purchasing power and technology opportunities across product lines. Strong Management Team. The Company is led by Chief Executive Officer Wilson R. Jones who has been employed by the Company since 2005. Mr. Jones is complemented by an experienced senior management team that has been assembled through internal promotions and external hires. The management team has successfully executed a strategic reshaping and expansion of the Company’s business, which has positioned the Company to be a global leader in the specialty vehicle and vehicle body markets and transformed the Company into a different integrated global industrial. The Company’s Board of Directors maintains a robust succession planning process for its Executive Officers to ensure strong continuity. As a result of this process, John Pfeifer, the Company’s current President and Chief Operating Officer has been appointed to President and Chief Executive Officer effective upon Mr. Jones retirement on April 2, 2021. Business Strategy The Company is focused on increasing its net sales, profitability and cash flow and maintaining a strong balance sheet by capitalizing on its competitive strengths and executing on MOVE, the Company’s integrated business strategy. The MOVE strategy provides a roadmap for the Company to deliver outstanding long-term shareholder value. The MOVE strategy consists of the following four key initiatives: M arket Leader Delighting Customers. This initiative focuses on growing profitability by maintaining intense emphasis on customer and end-user experiences, with an organizational commitment to the entire product life cycle. With a focus on responding to evolving customer needs, the Company aims to deliver superior products and services. The Company uses standard processes and tools throughout the organization to help ensure a consistent customer and end-user experience. O ptimize Cost and Capital Structure. This initiative focuses on optimizing the Company’s cost and capital structure to provide value for stakeholders. The Company embraces organizational simplification methodologies that focus on key value drivers and objectively allocates time and resources to those areas. Specific elements of simplification include the use of data analytics, lean continuous improvement, and organizational change management. The Company aggressively manages its 2 product, process, and overhead costs, opportunistically using its expected free cash flow to return capital to s hare holders or invest in growth opportunities. As a result of its focus on simplification and cost optimization, the Company expects to more efficiently utilize its manufacturing facilities, increase inventory turns, reduce product, process and overhead costs, lower manufacturing lead times and new product development cycle times and increase its operating income margins. V alue Innovation. This initiative focuses on emphasizing the Company’s new product development as it seeks to expand sales and margins by providing market leading customer and end-user value. The Company primarily uses internal resources for new product development, with an emphasis on leveraging advanced cross-portfolio design and engineering capabilities, but also uses licensing of technology and other partnering arrangements to execute multi-generational product plans in each of the Company’s businesses. The Company actively seeks to commercialize emerging technologies that are capable of expanding customer and end-user utilization of its products. E merging Market Expansion. This initiative focuses on the Company’s continued expansion into those specialty vehicle and vehicle body markets globally where it has acquired or can acquire strong market positions over time and where it believes it can leverage synergies in purchasing, manufacturing, technology and distribution to increase sales and profitability. Business development teams actively pursue new customers in targeted countries in Asia, Eastern Europe, the Middle East, Latin America and Africa. In pursuit of this strategy, the Company has sales and service offices in Russia, India, Saudi Arabia, China, South Korea and Japan to pursue various opportunities in each of those countries. In addition, the Company continues to expand its sales and aftermarket footprint in multiple countries in Europe, Latin America, Asia and the Middle East. The Company would also consider selectively pursuing strategic acquisitions to enhance the Company’s product offerings and expand its international presence in specialty vehicle and vehicle body markets. Products The Company is focused on the following core segments of the specialty vehicle and vehicle body markets: Access Equipment segment. JLG is a leading designer and manufacturer of aerial work platforms and telehandlers used in a wide variety of construction, industrial, institutional and general maintenance applications to safely position workers and materials at elevated heights. In addition, through a long-term license with Caterpillar Inc. that extends through 2025, JLG produces Caterpillar-branded telehandlers for distribution through the worldwide Caterpillar Inc. dealer network. JLG also offers a broad range of parts and accessories, including technical support and training, and reconditioning services. Access Equipment customers include equipment rental companies, construction contractors, manufacturing companies and home improvement centers. JLG’s products are marketed worldwide through independent rental companies and distributors that purchase these products and then rent or sell them and provide service support, as well as through other sales and service branches or organizations. JLG also arranges equipment financing and leasing solutions for its customers, primarily through third-party funding arrangements with independent financial companies, and occasionally provides credit support in connection with these financing and leasing arrangements. Financing arrangements that JLG offers or arranges through this segment include various types of rental fleet loans and leases, as well as floor plan and retail financing. Terms of these arrangements vary depending on the type of transaction, but typically range between 36 and 72 months and generally require the customer to be responsible for maintenance of the equipment and to bear the risk of damage to or loss of the equipment. The Company, through its Jerr-Dan brand, is a leading designer, manufacturer and marketer of towing and recovery equipment in the U.S. The Company believes Jerr-Dan is recognized as an industry leader in quality and innovation. Jerr-Dan offers a complete line of both carriers and wreckers. In addition to manufacturing equipment, Jerr-Dan provides its customers with one-stop service for carriers and wreckers and generates revenue from the installation of equipment, as well as the sale of chassis and service parts. Defense segment. Oshkosh Defense has designed and sold products to the DoD for over 90 years and also exports tactical wheeled vehicles to approved foreign customers. By successfully responding to the DoD’s changing vehicle requirements, Oshkosh Defense has become the leading manufacturer of Heavy, Medium, and Light tactical wheeled vehicles and related sustainment services for the DoD. Oshkosh Defense designs and manufactures vehicles that perform a variety of demanding tasks such as hauling tanks, missile systems, ammunition, fuel, troops and cargo for a broad range of missions. Oshkosh Defense’s proprietary product line of military heavy-payload tactical wheeled vehicles includes the Heavy Expanded Mobility Tactical Truck (HEMTT), the Heavy Equipment Transporter (HET), the Palletized Load System (PLS), and the Logistic Vehicle 3 System Replacement (LVSR). Oshkosh Defense’s proprietary medium-payload military tactical wheeled vehicles include the Medium Tactical Vehicle Replacement (MTVR). Oshkosh Defense’s proprietary light-payload military tactical wheeled vehicles include the Mine Resistant Ambush Protected-All Terrain Vehicle (M-ATV), which was specifically designed with superior survivability as well as extreme off-road mobility for use in conditions similar to those encountered in the conflict in Afghanistan, and the JLTV, the Company’s newest and most technologically advanced member of the light-payload vehicle category designed to protect, sustain and provide mobility for personnel and payloads across the full spectrum of military operations. In August 2009, the DoD awarded Oshkosh Defense a contract to be the sole producer of Family of Medium Tactical Vehicles (FMTV) under the U.S. Army’s FMTV Rebuy program. Originally a five-year requirements contract, the DoD extended the FMTV Rebuy program several times to allow for the delivery of vehicles and trailers through the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021. In February 2018, the DoD awarded Oshkosh Defense the FMTV A2 contract for the design, development, production and support of a fleet of future generation FMTV vehicles. The FMTV A2 contract is a firm-fixed price requirements contract valued at $467 million that initially covers a five-year delivery period starting in 2021, with a customer option for two additional years. In June 2015, the DoD awarded Oshkosh Defense a new Family of Heavy Tactical Vehicles (FHTV) contract for the recapitalization of HEMTT, HET and PLS vehicles as well as associated logistics and configuration management support. The contract was a five-year requirements contract for the continued remanufacturing of FHTV vehicles. The period for accepting orders under this contract expired during the third quarter of fiscal 2020. The contract was a fixed-price incentive firm contract where the price paid to the Company was subject to adjustment based on actual costs incurred. The impact of pricing adjustments under fixed-price incentive firm contracts is generally shared by the Company and the customer. The Company has submitted a proposal that could extend FHTV deliveries through 2025. The Company anticipates a customer decision on the contract extension award in the first half of fiscal 2021. In August 2015, Oshkosh Defense solidified its position in the light-payload tactical wheeled vehicle category when the DoD awarded Oshkosh Defense an eight-year, fixed price JLTV contract valued at $6.7 billion for production and delivery of 16,901 of these technologically enhanced vehicles and related sustainment services. The Company delivered its first production JLTV vehicles to the U.S. Army in September 2016. The program achieved full rate production milestone decision in fiscal 2019. Recently, the Army authorized an increase to the contract ceiling from 16,901 vehicles to 23,163. Under the current JLTV contract, Oshkosh Defense can accept vehicle orders through the first quarter of fiscal 2024 with deliveries into fiscal 2025. The U.S. Army, which purchased Government Purpose Rights to the Oshkosh JLTV design, has stated that they intend to conduct a full and open competition for follow-on JLTV production, with contract award in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022. In total, the JLTV program is expected to be a 20-year, $30 billion program for the production of up to 55,000 vehicles. In addition to retaining its current defense truck contracts, the Company’s objective is to continue to diversify into other areas of the U.S. and international defense vehicle markets by expanding applications, uses and vehicle body styles of its current tactical truck lines and growing aftermarket product and service offerings. Fire & Emergency segment. Through Pierce, the Company is the leading domestic designer and manufacturer of fire apparatus assembled on custom chassis, designed and manufactured to meet the special needs of firefighters. Pierce also designs and manufactures fire apparatus assembled on commercially available chassis, which are produced for multiple end-customer applications. Pierce’s engineering expertise allows it to design its vehicles to meet stringent industry guidelines and government regulations for safety and effectiveness. Pierce primarily serves domestic municipal customers, but also sells fire apparatus to the DoD, airports, universities and large industrial companies, and in international markets. Pierce’s history of innovation, research and development in consultation with firefighters has resulted in a broad product line that features a wide range of innovative, high-quality custom and commercial firefighting equipment with advanced fire suppression capabilities. In an effort to be a single-source supplier for its customers, Pierce offers a full line of custom and commercial fire apparatus and emergency vehicles, including pumpers, aerial platform, ladder and tiller trucks, tankers, light-, medium- and heavy-duty rescue vehicles, wildland rough terrain response vehicles, mobile command and control centers, bomb squad vehicles, hazardous materials control vehicles and other emergency response vehicles. The Company, through Airport Products, is a leader in the design and sale of ARFF vehicles to domestic and international airports. These highly-specialized vehicles are required to be in service at most airports worldwide to support commercial airlines in the event of an emergency. Many of the largest airports in the United States, including LaGuardia International Airport, John F. Kennedy International Airport, O’Hare International Airport, Denver International Airport, Baltimore-Washington International Airport, Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport, Tampa International Airport, Philadelphia 4 International Airport and San Francisco International Airport, are served by the Company’s ARFF vehicles. The U.S. government also maintains a fleet of ARFF vehicles that are used to support military operations throughout the world. Internationally, the Company’s vehicles serve, among others, Beijing, China and more than fifty other airports in China; Singapore; Indonesia; Quebec, Canada; Abu Dhabi, UAE; and Birmingham, Cardiff, Manchester and Liverpool, United Kingdom. In addition, t he Company has recently delivered ARFF vehicles to airports in Mexico, Japan, Egypt, Peru, Jamaica, Armenia, South Korea, Dominican Republic and the Philippines. The Company believes that the performance and reliability of its ARFF vehicles contribute to the Company’s strong position in this market. The Company, through Airport Products, is a global leader in airport snow removal vehicles. The Company’s specially designed airport snow removal vehicles are used by some of the largest airports in the world, including Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport, Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport, Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport, O’Hare International Airport, John F. Kennedy International Airport and Denver International Airport in the U.S. and Beijing, China; Incheon, South Korea; Chile, Japan and Argentina, internationally. The vehicles are also used at military air bases. The Company believes that the reliability of its high-performance snow removal vehicles and the speed with which they clear airport runways contribute to its strong position in this market. The Company, through its Frontline brand, is a leading manufacturer, system designer and integrator of broadcast vehicles, including electronic field production trailers, satellite news gathering and electronic news gathering vehicles for broadcasters and command trucks for local and federal governments along with being a leading supplier of military simulator shelters and trailers under the Oshkosh Specialty Vehicles (OSV) brand. The Company’s vehicles have been used worldwide to broadcast the NFL Super Bowl, the FIFA World Cup and the Olympics. The Company offers two- to twelve-year municipal lease financing programs to its Fire & Emergency segment customers in the U.S. through Oshkosh Equipment Finance, LLC, doing business as Pierce Financial Solutions. Programs include competitive lease financing rates, creative and flexible finance arrangements and the ease of one-stop shopping for customers’ equipment and financing. The Company executes the lease financing transactions through a co-branded arrangement with an independent third-party finance company. The Company typically provides credit support in connection with these financing and leasing arrangements. Commercial segment. Through McNeilus, the Company is a leading designer and manufacturer of refuse collection vehicles for the waste services industry throughout the Americas. Through Oshkosh Commercial, McNeilus and London, the Company is a leading designer and manufacturer of front- and rear-discharge concrete mixers for the concrete ready-mix industry throughout the Americas. Through IMT, the Company is a leading North American designer and manufacturer of field service vehicles and truck-mounted cranes for the construction, equipment dealer, building supply, utility, tire service, railroad and mining industries. The Company believes its Commercial segment vehicles and equipment have a reputation for efficient, cost-effective, dependable and low maintenance operation. The Company also arranges equipment financing and leasing solutions for its customers, primarily through third-party funding arrangements with independent financial companies, and occasionally provides credit support in connection with these financing and leasing arrangements. Marketing, Sales, Distribution and Service The Company believes it differentiates itself from many of its competitors by tailoring its distribution to the needs of its specialty vehicle and vehicle body markets and with its national and global sales and service capabilities. Distribution personnel demonstrate to customers how to use the Company’s products properly. In addition, the Company’s flexible distribution is focused on meeting customers on their terms, whether on a job site, in an evening public meeting or at a municipality’s office, compared to the showroom sales approach of the typical dealer of large vehicle manufacturers. The Company backs all products with same-day parts shipment, and its service technicians are available in person or by telephone to domestic customers 365 days a year. The Company believes its dedication to keeping its products in-service in demanding conditions worldwide has contributed to customer loyalty. The Company provides its salespeople, representatives and distributors with product and sales training on the operation and specifications of its products. The Company’s engineers, along with its product managers, develop operating manuals and provide field support at vehicle delivery. 5 U.S. dealers and representatives enter into agreements with the Company that allow for termination by either party generally upon 90 days’ notice, subject to applicable laws. Dealers and representatives, except for those utilized by JLG and IMT, are generally not permitted to market and sell competitive products. Access Equipment segment. JLG’s products are marketed across six continents through independent rental companies and distributors that purchase JLG products and then rent or sell them and provide service support, as well as through other Company owned sales and service branches. JLG maintains a broad worldwide internal sales force. Sales employees are dedicated to specific major customers, channels or geographic regions. JLG’s international sales employees are spread among international sales and service offices throughout the world. The Company markets its Jerr-Dan-branded carriers and wreckers through its extensive network of independent distributors. Defense segment. While Oshkosh Defense sells substantially all of its domestic defense products directly to principal branches of the DoD, it has also sold its defense products to numerous international militaries around the globe. Oshkosh Defense maintains a liaison office in Washington, D.C. to represent its interests with the U.S. Congress, the offices of the Executive Branch of the U.S. government, the Pentagon, as well as international embassies and government agencies. Oshkosh Defense locates its business development, consultants and engineering professionals near its customers’ principal commands, both domestically and internationally. Oshkosh Defense sells and services defense products to approved international governments as Direct Commercial Sales or Foreign Military Sales via U.S. government channels. Oshkosh Defense supports international sales through international sales offices, as well as through dealers, distributors and representatives. In addition to marketing its current tactical wheeled vehicle offerings and competing for new contracts, Oshkosh Defense actively works with the U.S. Armed Services to develop new applications for its vehicles and expand its services. Logistics services are increasingly important in the defense market. The Company believes that its proven worldwide logistics capabilities and internet-based ordering, invoicing and electronic payment systems have significantly contributed to the expansion of its defense parts and service business. Oshkosh Defense maintains a large parts distribution warehouse in Milwaukee, Wisconsin to fulfill stringent parts delivery schedule requirements, as well as satellite facilities near DoD bases in the U.S., Europe, Asia and the Middle East. Fire & Emergency segment. The Company believes the geographic breadth, size and quality of its Pierce fire apparatus sales and service organization are competitive advantages in a market characterized by a few large manufacturers and numerous small, regional competitors. Pierce’s fire apparatus are sold through an extensive network of independent sales and service organizations with hundreds of sales representatives in the U.S. and Canada, which combine broad geographical reach with high frequency of contact with fire departments and municipal government officials. These sales and service organizations are supported by product and marketing support professionals and contract administrators at Pierce. The Company believes high frequency of contact and local presence are important to cultivate major, and typically infrequent, purchases involving the city or town council, fire department, purchasing, finance and mayoral offices, among others, that may participate in a fire apparatus bid and selection process. After the sale, Pierce’s nationwide local parts and service capability is available to help municipalities maintain peak readiness for this vital municipal service. Pierce also sells directly to the DoD and other U.S. government agencies. Many of the Pierce fire apparatus sold to the DoD are placed in service at U.S. military bases, camps and stations overseas. Additionally, Pierce sells fire apparatus to international municipal and industrial fire departments through a network of international dealers. The Company markets its Frontline-branded broadcast vehicles through sales representatives and its Frontline-branded command vehicles through both sales representatives and dealer organizations that are directed at government and commercial customers. The Company markets its Oshkosh-branded ARFF vehicles through a combination of direct sales representatives domestically and an extensive network of representatives and distributors in international markets. Certain of these international representatives and distributors also handle Pierce products. The Company’s snow removal business uses a combination of internal sales and service representatives and distributor locations to focus on the sale of snow removal vehicles, principally to airports, but also to municipalities, counties and other governmental entities in the U.S. and Canada. In addition, the Company maintains offices in Dubai, UAE; Beijing, China; Tonneins, France; and Singapore to support airport product vehicle sales and aftermarket sales and support in Europe, the Middle East, China and Southeast Asia. 6 Commercial segment. The Company believes its network of representatives and dealers is a competitive advantage in refuse collection vehicle and concrete mixer markets, particularly in the U.S. waste services industry where principal competitors distribute through dealers and to a lesser extent in the ready mix concrete industry, where several competitors in part use dealers. The Company believes its distribution model allows for a more tailored distribution approach in the U.S. refuse collection vehicle and concrete mixer markets, whereas dealers frequently offer a very broad and mixed product line, and accordingly, the time dealers tend to devote to refuse collection vehicle and concrete mixer sales activities is limited. The Company has also established an extensive network of representatives and dealers throughout the Americas for the sale of McNeilus-branded refuse collection vehicles and Oshkosh-, McNeilus- and London-branded concrete mixers to international customers. The Company coordinates among its various businesses to respond to large international sales tenders with its most appropriate product offering for the tender. The Company utilizes an extensive network of representatives and dealers supported by hundreds of internal and external sales and service representatives in North America to sell and service refuse collection vehicles and front- and rear-discharge concrete mixers. The Company also performs sales and service activities at the Company’s manufacturing facilities. Service centers located throughout the U.S. provide sales, service and parts distribution to customers in their geographic regions. The Company believes this network represents one of the largest refuse collection vehicle and concrete mixer distribution networks in the U.S. IMT distributes its products through a wide network of dealers in over one hundred locations worldwide. International dealers are primarily located in Central and South America, Australia and Asia and are primarily focused on mining and construction markets. Manufacturing The Company manufactures its products at 28 manufacturing facilities. To reduce production costs, the Company maintains a continuing emphasis on the development of proprietary components, self-sufficiency in fabrication, just-in-time inventory management, improvement in production flows and interchangeability of components among product lines, creation of jigs and fixtures to ensure repeatability of quality processes, utilization of robotics, and performance measurement to assure progress toward cost reduction targets. The Company encourages employee involvement to improve production processes and product quality. The Company uses a common Quality Management System globally to support the delivery of consistent, high quality products and services to customers. The Company requires employees at all levels to understand customer and supplier requirements, measure performance, develop systems and procedures to prevent product nonconformance and continually improve all work processes. The Company educates and trains all employees at its facilities in quality principles. The Company utilizes quality gates in its manufacturing facilities to identify issues early in the process and to analyze root cause at the source, resulting in fewer defects and less rework. The Company’s Quality Management System is based on ISO 9001, a set of internationally-accepted requirements established by the International Organization for Standardization. ISO 9001 certification indicates that a company has established and follows a rigorous set of standards aimed at achieving customer satisfaction by following a process-based approach to identify and control the quality needs of suppliers, inputs, critical processes and outputs. The Quality Management System helps ensure that the Company is continually improving and sharing successful practices across the organization. The following brands are ISO 9001 certified: JLG, Oshkosh Defense, Pierce, McNeilus, Frontline, Jerr-Dan and Airport Products. The Company has a team of employees dedicated to leading the implementation of the Company’s Simplification program in support of the Company’s MOVE strategy. The team is comprised of members with diverse backgrounds in quality, lean, data analytics, product and process engineering, and culture change management. Simplification includes lean tools to eliminate waste and to provide better value for customers. It also guides customer satisfaction assessments to help identify opportunities to improve the customer experience with Oshkosh. Within the Company’s facilities, Simplification projects have contributed to manufacturing efficiency gains, materials management improvements, quality enhancements and reduction of lead times. Simplification projects have also freed up manufacturing space, allowing the Company to pursue a program focused on increased vertical integration, further setting the Company apart as a different integrated global industrial. 7 Engineering, Research and Development The Company believes its extensive engineering, research and development capabilities have been key drivers of the Company’s marketplace success. The Company maintains multiple facilities for new product development and testing with a staff of approximately 1,200 engineers and technicians who are dedicated to improving existing products, development and testing of new vehicles, vehicle bodies and components and sustaining its production activities. The Company prepares multi-year new product development and technology plans for each of its markets and measures progress against those plans each month. Virtually all of the Company’s sales of fire apparatus and broadcast vehicles require some level of custom engineering to meet the customer’s specifications and changing industry standards. Engineering is also a critical factor in defense vehicle markets due to the severe operating conditions under which the Company’s vehicles are utilized, new customer requirements and stringent government documentation requirements. In the Access Equipment and Commercial segments, product innovation is highly important to meet customers’ changing requirements. Accordingly, in addition to new product development engineers and technicians, the Company maintains an additional permanent staff of engineers and engineering technicians to sustain its production activities. Competition In all of the Company’s segments, competitors include smaller, specialized manufacturers as well as large, mass producers. The Company believes that, in its specialty vehicle and vehicle body markets, it has been able to effectively compete against large, mass producers due to its product quality, manufacturing flexibility, vertical integration, purchasing power in specialty vehicle components and tailored distribution systems. In addition, the Company believes it has competitive advantages over smaller vehicle and vehicle body manufacturers due to its relatively higher volumes of similar products that permit the use of moving assembly lines and which allow it to leverage purchasing power and technology opportunities across product lines. The Company believes that its competitive cost structure, strategic global purchasing capabilities, engineering expertise, product quality and global distribution and service systems have enabled it to compete effectively. Certain of the Company’s competitors have greater financial, marketing, manufacturing, distribution and governmental affairs resources than the Company. There can be no assurance that the Company’s products will continue to compete effectively with the products of competitors or that the Company will be able to retain its customer base or improve or maintain its profit margins on sales to its customers, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Access Equipment segment. JLG operates in the global construction, maintenance and industrial equipment markets. JLG’s competitors range from some of the world’s largest multi-national construction equipment manufacturers to small single-product niche manufacturers. Within this global market, competition for sales of aerial work platform equipment includes Genie Industries, Inc. (a subsidiary of Terex Corporation), Skyjack Inc. (a subsidiary of Linamar Corporation), Haulotte Group, Xuzhou Construction Machinery Group Co., Ltd. (XCMG), Zhejiang Dingli Machinery Co., Ltd. and numerous other manufacturers. Global competition for sales of telehandler equipment includes J C Bamford Excavators Ltd., the Manitou Group, Merlo SpA, Genie Industries, Inc., Haulotte Group, Skyjack Inc. and numerous other manufacturers. In addition, JLG faces competition from numerous manufacturers of other niche products such as boom vehicles, cherry pickers, skid steer loaders, mast climbers, straight mast and vehicle-mounted fork-lifts, rough-terrain and all-terrain cranes, vehicle-mounted cranes, portable material lifts, various types of material handling equipment, scaffolding and the common ladder that offer functionality that is similar to or overlaps that of JLG’s products. Principal methods of competition include brand awareness, product innovation and performance, price, quality, service and support, product availability and the extent to which a company offers single-source customer solutions. The Company believes its competitive strengths include: premium brand names; broad and single-source product offerings; product quality; product residual values that are generally higher than competitors’ units; worldwide distribution; safety record; service and support network; global procurement scale; extensive manufacturing capabilities; and cross-division synergies with other segments within Oshkosh Corporation. The principal competitor for Jerr-Dan-branded products is Miller Industries, Inc. Principal methods of competition for carriers and wreckers include product quality and innovation, product performance, price and service. The Company believes its competitive strengths in this market include its high quality, innovative and high-performance product line and its low-cost manufacturing capabilities. 8 Defense segment. Oshkosh Defense produces heavy- and medium-payload, Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) and light-payload tactical wheeled vehicles for the military and security forces around the world. Competition for sales of these vehicles includes, among others, Man Group plc, Mercedes-Benz (a subsidiary of Daimler AG), Navistar Defense LLC (a subsidiary of Cerberus Capital Management, LP ), General Dynamics Corporation, Lockheed Martin Corporation, AM General LLC (a subsidiary of KPS Capital Partners, LP), BAE Systems plc and Textron Inc. The principal method of competition in the D efense segment involves a competitive bid that takes into account factors as determined by the customer, such as price, product performance, product life cycle costs, small and disadvantaged business participation, product quality, adherence to bid specifications, production capability, project management capability, past performance and product support. Usually, the Company’s vehicle systems must also pass extensive testing. The Company believes that its competitive strengths include: strategic global purchasing capabilities leveraged across multiple business segments; extensive pricing/costing and defense contracting expertise; a significant installed base of vehicles currently in use throughout the world; flexible and high-efficiency vertically-integrated manufacturing capabilities; patented and/or proprietary vehicle components such as the TAK-4 family of independent suspension systems, Oshkosh power transfer cases and Command Zone integrated vehicle diagnostics; weapons and communications integration; ability to develop new and improved product capabilities responsive to the needs of its customers; product quality; and aftermarket parts sales and service capabilities. The Weapon Systems Acquisition Reform Act requires competition for defense programs in certain circumstances. Accordingly, it is possible that the U.S. Army and U.S. Marine Corps will conduct competitions for programs for which the Company currently has contracts upon the expiration of the existing contracts. Competition for these and other domestic programs could result in future contracts being awarded based upon different competitive factors than those described above and would primarily include price, production capability and past performance. The U.S. government has become more aggressive in seeking to acquire the design rights to the Company’s current and potential future programs to facilitate competition for manufacturing our vehicles. The willingness of the bidders to license their design rights to the DoD was an evaluation factor in the JLTV and FMTV A2 contract competitions. Certain of the Company’s contracts with the DoD, including the JLTV and FMTV A2 contracts, require that the Company effectively transfer the “technical know-how” necessary to produce and support the vehicles and/or other deliverables within the contract to the customer. The Competition in Contracting Act requires competition for U.S. defense programs in most circumstances. Competition for DoD programs that the Company currently has could result in the U.S. government awarding future contracts to another manufacturer or the U.S. government awarding the contracts to the Company at lower prices and operating margins than the Company experiences under current contracts. Fire & Emergency segment. The Company produces and sells custom and commercial firefighting vehicles in the U.S. and abroad under the Pierce brand and broadcast and command vehicles in the U.S. and abroad under the Frontline brand. Competitors for firefighting vehicles include Rosenbauer International AG; E-One, Inc., Ferrara Fire Apparatus, Inc., Spartan ER, and Kovatch Mobile Equipment Corp. (all four owned by REV Group, Inc.); and numerous smaller, regional manufacturers. Principal methods of competition include brand awareness, ability to meet or exceed customer specifications, price, the extent to which a company offers single-source customer solutions, product innovation, product quality, dealer distribution, and service and support. The Company believes that its competitive strengths include: recognized, premium brand name; nationwide network of independent Pierce dealers; extensive, high-quality and innovative product offerings, which include single-source customer solutions for aerials, pumpers and rescue units; large-scale and high-efficiency custom manufacturing capabilities; and proprietary technologies such as the PUC vehicle configuration, TAK-4 independent suspension system, Hercules and Husky foam systems, Command Zone electronics and the Ascendant family of aerial fire trucks. The main competitor for broadcast vehicles is Accelerated Media Technologies. The principal competition for command vehicles is LDV, Inc., MBF Industries, Inc., Nomad Global Communication Solutions, Incorporated, Farber Specialty Vehicles, Inc. and Matthews Specialty Vehicles, Inc. Airport Products manufactures ARFF vehicles for sale in the U.S. and abroad. Oshkosh’s competitors for ARFF vehicle sales are Rosenbauer International AG and E-One, Inc. Airport Products also manufactures snow removal vehicles, principally for U.S. and Canadian airports. The Company’s principal competitors for snow removal vehicle sales are M-B Companies, Inc. (owned by Aebi Schmidt Holding AG), Wausau-Everest LP (owned by Alamo Group, Inc.) and Overaasen AS. Principal methods of competition are product performance, price, service, product quality and innovation. The Company believes its competitive strengths in these airport markets include its high-quality, innovative products and a strong service support network. 9 Commercial segment. McNeilus produces refuse collection vehicles for North America and international markets. Competitors include The Heil Company (a subsidiary of Dover Corporation), Labrie Enviroquip Group ( owned by Wynnchurch Capital ) and other regional competitors. The principal methods of competition are product quality, product performance, service and price. The Company competes for municipal business and large commercial business in the Americas, which is generally based on lowest qualified bid. The Company believes its competitive strengths in the Americas refuse collection vehicle markets include: strong brand recognition; comprehensive product offerings; a reputation for high-quality products; ability to offer factory-installed compressed natural gas fuel systems; large-scale and high-efficiency manufacturing; and an extensive network of sales and service centers located throughout the U.S. The Company produces front- and rear-discharge concrete mixers for the Americas under the Oshkosh, McNeilus and London brands. Competition for concrete mixer sales includes Beck Industrial, Con-Tech Manufacturing, Inc., Terex Corporation and other regional competitors. Principal methods of competition are price, service, product features, product quality and product availability. The Company believes its competitive strengths include: strong brand recognition; large-scale and high-efficiency manufacturing; extensive product offerings; high product quality; innovative control systems; ability to offer factory-installed compressed natural gas fuel systems; a significant installed base of concrete mixers in use in the marketplace; and its nationwide network of sales and service centers. IMT is a manufacturer of field service vehicles and truck-mounted cranes for the construction, equipment dealer, building supply, utility, tire service, railroad and mining industries. IMT’s principal field service vehicle competition is from Auto Crane Company (owned by Ramsey Industries, Inc.), Stellar Industries, Inc., Maintainer Corporation of Iowa, Inc., the Knapheide Manufacturing Company and other regional companies. Competition in truck-mounted cranes comes primarily from European companies including Palfinger AG, Cargotec Corporation and Fassi Group SpA. Principal methods of competition are product quality, price and service. The Company believes its competitive strengths include its high-quality products, global distribution network and low-cost manufacturing capabilities. Government Contracts Approximately 35% of the Company’s net sales for fiscal 2020 were made to the U.S. government, a substantial majority of which were under multi-year contracts and programs in the defense vehicle market. Accordingly, a significant portion of the Company’s sales are subject to risks specific to doing business with the U.S. government, including uncertainty of economic conditions, changes in government policies and requirements that may reflect rapidly changing military and political developments, the availability of funds and the ability to meet specified performance thresholds. Multi-year contracts may be conditioned upon continued availability of congressional appropriations and are impacted by uncertainty regarding the federal budget pressures. Variances between anticipated budget and congressional appropriations may result in a delay, reduction or termination of these contracts. Oshkosh Defense’s sales are substantially dependent upon periodic awards of new contracts, the purchase of base vehicle quantities and the exercise of options under existing contracts. The funding of U.S. government programs is subject to an annual congressional budget authorization and appropriation process. In years when the U.S. government has not completed its budget process before the end of its fiscal year, government operations are typically funded pursuant to a “continuing resolution,” which allows federal government agencies to operate at spending levels approved in the previous budget cycle but does not authorize new spending initiatives. When the U.S. government operates under a continuing resolution, delays can occur in the procurement of the products, services and solutions that Oshkosh Defense provides and may result in new initiatives being delayed or canceled, or funds could be reprogrammed away from Oshkosh Defense’s programs to pay for higher priority operational needs. In years when the U.S. government fails to complete its budget process or to provide for a continuing resolution, a federal government shutdown may result. This could in turn result in the delay or cancellation of key programs, which could have a negative effect on the Company’s cash flows and adversely affect the Company’s future results. In addition, payments to contractors for services performed during a federal government shutdown may be delayed, which would have a negative effect on the Company’s cash flows. Defense contract awards that Oshkosh Defense receives may be subject to protests by competing bidders. These protests, if successful, could result in the DoD revoking part or all of any defense contract it awards to Oshkosh Defense and an inability of Oshkosh Defense to recover amounts it has expended during the protest period in anticipation of initiating work under any such contract. 10 Under firm, fixed-price contracts with the U.S. government, the price paid to the Company is generally not subject to adjustment to reflect the Company’s actual costs, except costs incurred as a result of contract changes ordered by the U.S. government. The Company generally attempts to negotiate with the U.S. government the amount of increased compensation to which the Company is entitled for government-ordered changes that result in higher costs. If the Company is unable to negotiate a satisfactory agreement to provide such increased compensation, then the Company may file an appeal with the Armed Services Board of Contract Appeals or the U.S. Claims Court. The Company has no such appeals pending. The Company seeks to mitigate risks with respect to fixed-price contracts by executing firm, fixed-price contracts with its suppliers of significant components for the duration of the Company’s contracts. U.S. government contracts generally permit the government to terminate a contract, in whole or part, at the government’s convenience. If the U.S. government exercises its rights under this clause the contractor is entitled to payment for the allowable costs incurred and a reasonable profit on the work performed to date. The U.S. government can also terminate a contract for default. If a contract is terminated for default, the contractor is generally entitled to payment for work that has been accepted by the U.S. government. Termination for default may expose the Company to loss on work not yet accepted by the government and have a negative impact on the Company’s ability to obtain future orders and contracts. The U.S. government’s right to terminate its contracts has not had a material effect on the operations or financial condition of the Company. The Company, as a U.S. government contractor, is subject to financial audits and other reviews by the U.S. government relating to the performance of, and the accounting and general practices relating to, U.S. government contracts. Like most large government contractors, the Company is audited and reviewed by the government on a continual basis. Costs and prices under such contracts may be subject to adjustment based upon the results of such audits and reviews. Additionally, such audits and reviews can lead to civil, criminal or administrative proceedings. Such proceedings could involve claims by the government for fines, penalties, compensatory and treble damages, restitution and/or forfeitures. Under government regulations, a company or one or more of its subsidiaries can also be suspended or debarred from government contracts, or lose its export privileges based on the results of such proceedings. The Company believes that the outcome of all such audits and reviews that are now pending will not have a material effect on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Suppliers The Company is dependent on its suppliers and subcontractors to meet commitments to its customers, and many components are procured or subcontracted on a sole-source basis with a number of domestic and foreign companies. Components for the Company’s products are generally available from a number of suppliers, although the transition to a new supplier may require several months to conclude. The Company purchases chassis components, such as vehicle frames, engines, transmissions, radiators, axles, tires, drive motors, bearings and hydraulic components and vehicle body options, such as cranes, cargo bodies and trailers, from third-party suppliers. These body options may be manufactured specific to the Company’s requirements; however, most of the body options could be manufactured by other suppliers or the Company itself. Through reliance on this supply network for the purchase of certain components, the Company is able to reduce many of the pre-production and fixed costs associated with the manufacture of these components and vehicle body options. The Company purchases a large amount of fabrications and outsources certain manufacturing services, each generally from small companies located near its facilities. While providing low-cost services and product surge capability, such companies often require additional management attention during difficult economic conditions or contract start-up. The Company also purchases complete vehicle chassis from truck chassis suppliers in its Commercial segment and, to a lesser extent, in its Fire & Emergency and Access Equipment segments. Increasingly, the Company is sourcing components globally, which may involve additional inventory requirements and introduces additional foreign currency exposures. The Company maintains an extensive qualification, on-site inspection, assistance and performance measurement system to attempt to control risks associated with reliance on suppliers. The Company occasionally experiences problems with supplier and subcontractor performance and component, chassis and body availability and must identify alternate sources of supply and/or address related warranty claims from customers. While the Company purchases many costly components such as chassis, engines and transmissions, it manufactures certain proprietary components and systems. These components include front drive steer axles, transfer cases, transaxles, cabs, the TAK-4 independent suspension system, Hercules and Husky compressed air foam systems, the Command Zone vehicle control system, body structures and many smaller parts that add uniqueness and value to the Company’s products. The Company believes controlling the production of these components provides a significant competitive advantage and also serves to reduce the production costs of the Company’s products. The Company intends to continue to pursue vertical integration opportunities to further increase its competitive advantages. 11 Intellectual Property Patents and licenses are important in the operation of the Company’s business. One of management’s objectives is developing proprietary components to provide the Company’s customers with advanced technological solutions at attractive prices. The Company holds in excess of 1,000 active domestic and foreign patents. The Company believes patents for the TAK-4 independent suspension system, which expire between 2020 and 2040, provide the Company with a competitive advantage in the Defense and Fire & Emergency segments. In the Defense segment, the TAK-4 independent suspension system has been incorporated into the U.S. Marine Corps’ MTVR and LVSR programs, the U.S. Army’s PLS A1 program, the MRAP - Joint Program Office M-ATV program, the JLTV program and the FMTV A2 program. The Company believes the TAK-4 independent suspension system provided a performance and cost advantage that contributed to the Company winning these programs. In the Fire & Emergency segment, TAK-4 independent suspension systems are standard on Pierce custom fire trucks and Global Striker ARFF vehicles, which the Company believes brings a similar competitive advantage to these markets. The Company believes that patents for certain components of its ProPulse hybrid electric drive system and Command Zone electronics system offer potential competitive advantages to product lines across all its segments. To a lesser extent, other proprietary components provide the Company a competitive advantage in each of the Company’s segments. As part of the Company’s long-term alliance with Caterpillar Inc., the Company acquired a non-exclusive, non-transferable worldwide license to use certain Caterpillar Inc. intellectual property through 2025 in connection with the design and manufacture of Caterpillar Inc.’s current telehandler products. Additionally, Caterpillar Inc. assigned to JLG certain patents and patent applications relating to the Caterpillar-branded telehandler products. The Company holds trademarks for “Oshkosh,” “Oshkosh Defense,” “TAK-4,” “ProPulse,” “JLG,” “SkyTrak,” “Pierce,” “McNeilus,” “Jerr-Dan,” “London” and “IMT” among others. These trademarks are considered to be important to the future success of the Company’s business. Human Capital Management The Company maintains a People First culture that includes investing in employees’ safety, wellbeing, and personal and professional development, as well as diversity and inclusion. The Company believes its People First culture is a strength, and the Company intends to continue building upon that culture to drive sustainable performance across the business. The Company tracks its performance by measuring numerous relevant elements relating to its employees and the Company’s human capital management efforts, including but not limited to safety and diversity and inclusion. Relative to safety, the Company generally aspires to reduce its lost time and recordable injuries each year. In fiscal 2020, the Company achieved a lost time rate of .06 and a recordable injury rate of 2.58. The Company also measures diverse hires for full time U.S. non-production positions and has a goal that 40% of such hires should be diverse in any given year. Diverse hires include ethnicity, gender, veteran and disability status. In fiscal 2020, 42.2% of the Company’s hires for full time U.S. non-production positions were diverse. Further, the Company is committed to supporting its diverse team members and in doing so recently established three additional employee business resource groups consisting of intergenerational, multicultural and LGBTQ+ employee business resource groups during fiscal 2020. As of September 30, 2020, the Company had approximately 14,400 employees, approximately 9,000 of whom are production employees. The United Auto Workers union (UAW) represented approximately 2,000 production employees at the Company’s Oshkosh, Wisconsin facilities; the Boilermakers, Iron Shipbuilders, Blacksmiths and Forgers Union (Boilermakers) represented approximately 240 employees at the Company’s Kewaunee, Wisconsin facility; and the International Brotherhood of Teamsters Union (Teamsters) represented approximately 200 employees at the Company’s Garner, Iowa facility. The Company’s agreement with the UAW expires in September 2027. The Company’s five-year agreement with the Boilermakers expires in May 2022. The Company’s three-year agreement with the Teamsters extends through October 2023. In addition, the majority of the Company’s approximately 900 employees located outside of the U.S. are represented by separate works councils or unions. The Company believes its relationship with its employee team members is satisfactory. 12 Seasonal Nature of Business In the Company’s Access Equipment and Commercial segments, business tends to be seasonal with an increase in sales occurring in the spring and summer months that constitute the traditional construction season in the northern hemisphere. In addition, sales are generally lower in the first fiscal quarter in all segments due to the relatively high number of holidays in the United States, which reduce available production and shipping days. Available Information The Company maintains a website with the address www.oshkoshcorp.com. The Company is not including the information contained on the Company’s website as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company makes available free of charge (other than an investor’s own Internet access charges) through its website its Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company electronically files such materials with, or furnishes such materials to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). ITEM 1A.