 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS. PACCAR Inc (the Company or PACCAR), incorporated under the laws of Delaware in 1971, is the successor to Pacific Car and Foundry Company which was incorporated in Washington in 1924. The Company traces its predecessors to Seattle Car Manufacturing Company formed in 1905. Description of Business PACCAR is a multinational company operating in three principal industry segments: (1) The Truck segment includes the design, manufacture and distribution of high-quality, light-, medium- and heavy-duty commercial trucks. Heavy-duty trucks have a gross vehicle weight (GVW) of over 33,000 lbs (Class 8) in North America and over 16 metric tonnes in Europe and South America. Medium-duty trucks have a GVW ranging from 19,500 to 33,000 lbs (Class 6 to 7) in North America, and in Europe, light- and medium-duty trucks range between 6 and 16 metric tonnes. Trucks are configured with engine in front of cab (conventional) or cab-over-engine (COE). (2) The Parts segment includes the distribution of aftermarket parts for trucks and related commercial vehicles. (3) The Financial Services segment includes finance and leasing products and services provided to customers and dealers. PACCAR’s finance and leasing activities are principally related to PACCAR products and associated equipment. PACCAR’s Other business includes the manufacturing and marketing of industrial winches. TRUCKS PACCAR’s trucks are marketed under the Kenworth, Peterbilt and DAF nameplates. These trucks, which are built in three plants in the United States, three in Europe and one each in Australia, Brasil, Canada and Mexico, are used worldwide for over-the-road and off-highway hauling of commercial and consumer goods. The Company also designs and manufactures diesel engines, primarily for use in the Company’s trucks, at its facilities in Columbus, Mississippi; Eindhoven, the Netherlands; and Ponta Grossa, Brasil. PACCAR competes in the North American Class 8 market, primarily with Kenworth and Peterbilt conventional models. These trucks are assembled at facilities in Chillicothe, Ohio; Denton, Texas; Renton, Washington and Mexicali, Mexico. PACCAR also competes in the North American Class 6 to 7 markets primarily with Kenworth and Peterbilt conventional models. These trucks are assembled at facilities in Ste. Therese, Canada; Denton, Texas, and Mexicali, Mexico. PACCAR competes in the European light/medium market with DAF COE trucks assembled in the United Kingdom (U.K.) by Leyland, one of PACCAR’s wholly owned subsidiaries, and participates in the European heavy market with DAF COE trucks assembled in the Netherlands and the U.K. PACCAR competes in the Brazilian heavy truck market with DAF models assembled at Ponta Grossa in the state of Paraná, Brasil. PACCAR competes in the Australian medium and heavy truck markets with Kenworth conventional and COE models and certain DAF COE models assembled at its facility at Bayswater in the state of Victoria, Australia, and DAF COE models primarily assembled in the U.K. Commercial truck manufacturing comprises the largest segment of PACCAR’s business and accounted for 71% of total 2021 net sales and revenues. Substantially all trucks are sold to independent dealers. The Kenworth and Peterbilt nameplates are marketed and distributed by separate divisions in the U.S. and a foreign subsidiary in Canada. The Kenworth nameplate is also marketed and distributed by foreign subsidiaries in Mexico and Australia. The DAF nameplate is marketed and distributed worldwide by a foreign subsidiary headquartered in the Netherlands and is also marketed and distributed by foreign subsidiaries in Brasil and Australia. The decision to operate as a subsidiary or as a division is incidental to PACCAR’s Truck segment operations and reflects legal, tax and regulatory requirements in the various countries where PACCAR operates. The Truck segment utilizes centrally managed purchasing, information technology, technical research and testing, treasury and finance functions. Some manufacturing plants in North America produce trucks for more than one nameplate, while other plants produce trucks for only one nameplate, depending on various factors. Best manufacturing practices within the Company are shared on a routine basis reflecting the similarity of the business models employed by each nameplate. 3 The Company’s trucks have a reputation for high quality products, most of which are ordered by dealers according to customer specifications. Some units are ordered by dealers for stocking to meet the needs of certain customers who require immediate delivery or for customers that require chassis to be fitted with specialized bodies. For a significant portion of the Company’s truck operations, major components, such as engines, transmissions and axles, as well as a substantial percentage of other components, are purchased from component manufacturers pursuant to PACCAR and customer specifications. DAF, which is more vertically integrated, manufactures PACCAR engines and axles and a higher percentage of other components for its heavy truck models. The Company also manufactures engines at its Columbus, Mississippi facility. In 202 1, the Company installed PACCAR engines in approximately 38 % of the Company’s Kenworth and Peterbilt heavy ‑duty trucks in the U.S. and Canada and substantially all of the DAF heavy-duty trucks sold throughout the world. Engines not manufactured by the Company are purchased from Cummins Inc. (Cummins). The Company purchased a significant portion of its transmissions from Eaton Corporation Plc. (Eaton) and ZF Friedrichshafen AG (ZF). The Company also purchased a significant portion of North America stampings used for cabs from Magna International Inc. (Magna). The Company has long-term agreements with Cummins, Eaton, ZF and Magna to provide for continuity of supply. A loss of supply from Cummins, Eaton, ZF or Magna, and the resulting interruption in the production of trucks, would have a material effect on the Company’s results. Purchased materials and parts include raw materials, partially processed materials, such as castings, and finished components manufactured by independent suppliers. Raw materials, partially processed materials and finished components typically make up approximately 8 5 % of the cost of new trucks. The value of finished truck components manufactured by independent suppliers ranges from approximately 3 6 % in Europe to approximately 8 6 % in North America. In addition to materials, the Company’s cost of sales includes labor and factory overhead, vehicle delivery and warranty. Accordingly, except for certain factory overhead costs such as facilities depreciation, property taxes and utilities, the Company’s cost of sales are highly correlated to sales. The Company’s DAF subsidiary purchases fully assembled cabs from a competitor, Renault V.I., for its European light-duty product line pursuant to a joint product development and long-term supply contract. Sales of trucks manufactured with these cabs amounted to approximately 3% of consolidated revenues in 2021. A short-term loss of supply, and the resulting interruption in the production of these trucks, would not have a material effect on the Company’s results of operations. However, a loss of supply for an extended period of time would require the Company to either contract for an alternative source of supply or to manufacture cabs itself. Other than these components, the Company is not limited to any single source for any significant component, although the sudden inability of a supplier to deliver components could have a temporary adverse effect on production of certain products. Manufacturing inventory levels are based upon production schedules, and orders are placed with suppliers accordingly. Key factors affecting Truck segment earnings include the number of new trucks sold in the markets served and the margins realized on the sales. The Company’s sales of new trucks are dependent on the size of the truck markets served and the Company’s share of those markets. Truck segment sales and margins tend to be cyclical based on the level of overall economic activity, the availability of capital and the amount of freight being transported. The Company’s costs for trucks consist primarily of material costs, which are influenced by the price of commodities such as steel, copper, aluminum and petroleum. The Company utilizes long-term supply agreements to reduce the variability of the unit cost of purchased materials and finished components and engages in hedging activities for some commodities in certain geographical markets. The Company’s spending on research and development varies based on product development cycles and government requirements such as changes to diesel engine emissions and vehicle fuel efficiency standards in the various markets served. The Company maintains rigorous control of selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses and seeks to minimize such costs. There are four principal competitors in the U.S. and Canada commercial truck market. The Company’s share of the U.S. and Canadian Class 8 market was 29.2% of retail sales in 2021, and the Company’s medium-duty market share was 19.8%. In Europe, there are six principal competitors in the commercial truck market, including parent companies to four competitors of the Company in the U.S. In 2021, DAF had a 15.9% share of the European heavy-duty market and a 10.1% share of the light/medium-duty market. These markets are highly competitive in price, quality and service. PACCAR is not dependent on any single customer for its sales. There are no significant seasonal variations in sales. The Peterbilt, Kenworth and DAF nameplates are recognized internationally and play an important role in the marketing of the Company’s truck products. The Company engages in a continuous program of trademark and trade name protection in all marketing areas of the world. The Company’s truck products are subject to noise, emission and safety regulations. Competing manufacturers are subject to the same regulations. The Company believes the cost of complying with these regulations will not be detrimental to its business. The Company had a total production backlog of $15.9 billion at the end of 2021. Within this backlog, orders scheduled for delivery within three months (90 days) are considered to be firm. The 90‑day backlog approximated $5.2 billion at December 31, 2021, $4.6 billion at December 31, 2020 and $3.3 billion at December 31, 2019. Production of the year-end 2021 backlog is expected to be substantially completed during 2022. 4 PARTS The Parts segment includes the distribution of aftermarket parts for trucks and related commercial vehicles to over 2,200 Kenworth, Peterbilt and DAF dealers in 95 countries around the world. Aftermarket truck parts are sold and delivered to the Company’s independent dealers through the Company’s 18 strategically located parts distribution centers (PDCs) in the U.S., Canada, Europe, Australia, Mexico and Central and South America. Parts are primarily purchased from various suppliers and also manufactured by the Company. Aftermarket parts inventory levels are determined largely by anticipated customer demand and the need for timely delivery. The Parts segment accounted for 21% of total 2021 net sales and revenues. Key factors affecting Parts segment earnings include the aftermarket parts sold in the markets served and the margins realized on the sales. Aftermarket parts sales are influenced by the total number of the Company’s trucks in service and the average age and mileage of those trucks. To reflect the benefit the Parts segment receives from costs incurred by the Truck segment, certain factory overhead, research and development, engineering and SG&A expenses are allocated from the Truck segment to the Parts segment. The Company’s cost for parts sold consists primarily of material costs, which are influenced by the price of commodities such as steel, copper, aluminum and petroleum. The Company utilizes long-term supply agreements to reduce the variability of the cost of parts sold. The Company maintains rigorous control of SG&A expenses and seeks to minimize such costs. FINANCIAL SERVICES PACCAR Financial Services (PFS) operates in 26 countries in North America, Europe, Australia and South America through wholly owned finance companies operating under the PACCAR Financial trade name. PFS also conducts full-service leasing operations through operating divisions or wholly owned subsidiaries in North America, Germany and Australia under the PacLease trade name. Selected dealers in North America are franchised to provide full-service leasing. PFS provides its franchisees with equipment financing and administrative support. PFS also operates its own full service lease outlets. PFS’s retail loan and lease customers consist of small, medium and large commercial trucking companies, independent owner/operators and other businesses and acquire their PACCAR trucks principally from independent PACCAR dealers. PFS accounted for 7% of total net sales and revenues and 53% of total assets in 2021. PFS is primarily responsible for managing the sales of the Company’s used trucks. The Company’s Financial Services segment sells used trucks returned from matured operating leases in the ordinary course of business and trucks acquired from repossessions. PFS also obtains used trucks from the Truck segment in trades related to new truck sales and trucks returned from residual value guarantees (RVGs). Certain gains and losses from the sale of used trucks are shared with the Truck segment. The Company’s Financial Services segment records revenue on the sale of used trucks received in trade and RVG returns. The Company’s finance receivables are classified as dealer wholesale, dealer retail and customer retail segments. The dealer wholesale segment consists of truck inventory financing to independent PACCAR dealers. The dealer retail segment consists of loans and leases to participating dealers and franchises, which use the proceeds to fund their customers’ acquisition of trucks and related equipment. The customer retail segment consists of loans and leases directly to customers for their acquisition of trucks and related equipment. Customer retail receivables are further segregated by fleet and owner/operator classes. The fleet class consists of customers operating more than five trucks. All others are considered owner/operators. Similar methods are employed to assess and monitor credit risk for each class. Finance receivables are secured by the trucks and related equipment being financed or leased. The terms of loan and lease contracts generally range from three to five years depending on the type and use of equipment. Payment is required on dealer inventory financing when the floored truck is sold to a customer or upon maturity of the flooring loan, whichever comes first. Dealer inventory loans generally mature within one year. The Company funds its financial services activities primarily from collections on existing finance receivables and borrowings in the capital markets. The primary sources of borrowings in the capital markets are commercial paper and medium-term notes issued in public and private offerings and, to a lesser extent, bank loans. An additional source of funds is loans from other PACCAR companies. PFS matches the maturity and interest rate characteristics of its debt with the maturity and interest rate characteristics of loans and leases. Key factors affecting the earnings of the Financial Services segment include the volume of new loans and leases, the yield earned on the loans and leases, the costs of funding investments in loans and leases, the ability to collect the amounts owed to PFS, the volume of used truck sales and used truck prices. New loan and lease volume is dependent on the volume of new trucks sold by Kenworth, Peterbilt and DAF and the share of those truck sales that are financed by the Financial Services segment. The Company’s Financial Services market share is influenced by the extent of competition in the financing market. PFS’s primary competitors include commercial banks and independent finance and leasing companies. 5 The revenue earned on loans and leases depends on market interest and lease rates and the ability of PFS to differentiate itself from the competition by superior industry knowledge and customer service. Dealer inventory loans have variable rates with rates reset monthly based on an index pertaining to the applicable local market. Retail loan and lease contracts normally have fixed rates over the contract term. PFS obtains funds either through fixed rate borrowings or through variable rate borrowings, a portion of which have been effectively converted to fixed rate through the use of interest-rate contracts. This enables PFS to obtain a stable spread between the cost of borrowing and the yield on fixed rate contracts over the contract term. Included in Financial Services cost of revenues is depreciation on equipment on operating leases. The amount of depreciation on operating leases principally depends on the acquisition cost of leased equipment, the term of the leases, which generally ranges from three to five years, and the residual value of the leases, which generally ranges from 30% to 70%. The margin earned is the difference between the revenues on loan and lease contracts and the direct costs of operation, including interest and depreciation. PFS incurs credit losses when customers are unable to pay the full amounts due under loan and finance lease contracts. PFS takes a conservative approach to underwriting new retail business in order to minimize credit losses. The ability of customers to pay their obligations to PFS depends on the state of the general economy, the extent of freight demand, freight rates and the cost of fuel, among other factors. PFS limits its exposure to any one customer, with no one customer or dealer balance representing over 5% of the aggregate portfolio assets. PFS generally requires a down payment and secures its interest in the underlying truck collateral and may require other collateral or guarantees. In the event of default, PFS will repossess the truck and sell it in the open market primarily through its dealer network as well as PFS used truck centers. PFS will also seek to recover any shortfall between the amounts owed and the amounts recovered from sale of the collateral. The amount of credit losses depends on the rate of default on loans and finance leases and, in the event of repossession, the ability to recover the amount owed from sale of the collateral which is affected by used truck prices. PFS’s experience over the last sixty years financing truck sales has been that periods of economic weakness result in higher past dues and increased rates of repossession. Used truck prices also tend to fall during periods of economic weakness. As a result, credit losses tend to increase during periods of economic weakness. PFS provides an allowance for credit losses based on specifically identified customer risks and an analysis of estimated losses inherent in the portfolio, considering the amount of past due accounts, the trends of used truck prices and the current and forecasted economic conditions of its geographic markets. Financial Services SG&A expenses consist primarily of personnel costs associated with originating and servicing the loan and lease portfolios. These costs vary somewhat depending on overall levels of business activity, but given the ongoing nature of servicing activities, tend to be relatively stable. OTHER BUSINESSES Other businesses include the manufacturing of industrial winches in two U.S. plants and marketing them under the Braden, Carco and Gearmatic nameplates. The markets for these products are highly competitive, and the Company competes with a number of well established firms. Sales of industrial winches were less than 1% of total net sales and revenues in 2021, 2020, and 2019. The Braden, Carco and Gearmatic trademarks and trade names are recognized internationally and play an important role in the marketing of those products. PATENTS The Company owns numerous patents which relate to all product lines. Although these patents are considered important to the overall conduct of the Company’s business, no patent or group of patents is considered essential to a material part of the Company’s business. REGULATION As a manufacturer of highway trucks, the Company is subject to the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act and Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards promulgated by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration as well as environmental laws and regulations in the United States, and is subject to similar regulations in all countries where it has operations and where its trucks are distributed. In addition, the Company is subject to certain other licensing requirements to do business in the United States and Europe. The Company believes it is in compliance with laws and regulations applicable to safety standards, the environment and other licensing requirements in all countries where it has operations and where its trucks are distributed. The Company designs and manufactures engines for use in PACCAR vehicles worldwide. Our engines are subject to a wide variety of regulatory requirements that impose standards governing emissions, fuel efficiency and noise. Our engines are certified globally through various categories within on-highway and off-highway applications. Regulations in these categories typically control nitrous 6 oxides (NOx), particulate matter (PM) and greenhouse gases ( GHG ). The Company will continue to fund capital and R&D projects to meet future emissions and certification requirements through the introduction of new technologies to our engines and exhaust after-treatment systems. The Company’s manufacturing and assembly plants are subject to environmental laws and regulations such as regulating air emissions, water discharges and the handling and disposal of hazardous substances. Failure to comply with these regulations could lead to fines and other penalties. The Company believes in all material respects it is in compliance with the laws and regulations applicable to our plants and operations. Information regarding the effects that compliance with international, federal, state and local provisions regulating the environment have on the Company’s capital and operating expenditures and the Company’s involvement in environmental matters is included in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements in Items 7 and 8, respectively. HUMAN CAPITAL MANAGEMENT PACCAR is committed to a strong, diverse and inclusive culture and the Company’s excellent financial results reflect its human centered philosophy. The Company provides its employees with robust benefits packages, comprehensive training programs, tuition assistance and a work environment that promotes safety and diversity. The Company’s benefit packages support employee physical, emotional and financial well-being. Employee satisfaction and engagement are measured through periodic surveys. Employee training and development programs are extensive and comprehensive, including professional and technical skills training, compliance training, leadership development and management training. The Company has diversity councils throughout its global business that set goals to enhance business success through diverse and inclusive workplaces. PACCAR has a proud tradition of making grants around the world for education, social services and the arts to enrich the communities in which its employees live and work. Safety is a key priority and the Company’s major manufacturing facilities are equipped with safety and health departments staffed with trained medical personnel. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company adapted its facilities for social distancing and implemented strong procedures to maintain appropriate health and safety protocols. The Company’s managers continuously address safety enhancements; provide regular and ongoing safety training; and use displays located in factories to provide all employees with safety-related information. PACCAR's consistent focus on workplace safety has resulted in a recordable injury rate lower than the U.S. industry average. On December 31, 2021, the Company had approximately 28,500 employees. Approximately 37% are U.S. employees. ENVIRONMENTAL AND SUSTAINABILITY LEADERSHIP Reducing the environmental impact of the Company’s activities and products is an integral part of the Company’s process of continuous improvement. PACCAR’s commitment to the environment is demonstrated in the Company’s energy efficient operations and technologically advanced products. The Company’s environmental management system and policy are designed to focus on the reduction of the environmental impacts of the Company’s activities, products and services. Operations - PACCAR is committed to environmental responsibility in the vehicle production process. PACCAR’s facilities are continuously looking for ways to reduce waste, reuse materials, conserve energy and reduce the environmental impact of our activities. PACCAR’s factories are ISO 14001 certified and more than 80% are zero waste-to-landfill. PACCAR has disclosed greenhouse gas emissions through CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) since 2014. In 2021, PACCAR achieved an A score from CDP, placing in the top 1.5% of over 13,000 companies reporting and demonstrating a robust approach to reducing greenhouse gas emissions in Kenworth, Peterbilt and DAF vehicles and from our global operations. PACCAR has earned an “A” or “A-” rating for seven consecutive years. PACCAR has established new emissions reduction targets in partnership with the Science Based Targets Initiative (SBTi). SBTi works with more than 1,000 companies worldwide to create a clearly defined path to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, with the goal to help limit global warming to below 2 degrees Celsius compared to pre-industrial levels. 7 Innovative Products - A key element of PACCAR’s environmental strategy is to offer our customers commercial vehicles that reduce environmental impacts. The company invests in technologies that reduce greenhouse gas emissions such as highly fuel efficient diesel engines, natural gas and biofuel engines, as well as next generation electric, hybrid, and hydrogen fuel cell powertrains. To develop these industry-leading products and technologies, PACCAR makes significant research and development and capital investments every year. PACCAR’s Zero Emission Trucks - PACCAR’s research and development efforts include several demonstration and development projects for Kenworth, Peterbilt and DAF vehicles, including battery electric, hydrogen fuel cell, hydrogen combustion and hybrid technologies. PACCAR is currently producing battery electric Kenworth, Peterbilt and DAF trucks. Low Carbon and Renewable Fuels - PACCAR’s MX-13 and MX-11 engines are certified to use B10/B20/B30 and XTL biofuels in Europe and B20 biofuel in the U.S. Biofuel capable unit sales represent 49% of PACCAR’s total global truck sales. Advanced Vehicles - PACCAR is launching its SuperTruck 3 program to continue the development of its Class 8 Kenworth and Peterbilt battery electric and fuel cell vehicles, along with its vehicle charging stations. SuperTruck 3 is a U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) initiative to develop state-of-the-art zero emissions medium- and heavy-duty trucks. The SuperTruck initiative was launched in 2009 by the DOE to improve heavy-duty truck freight efficiency. Kenworth and Peterbilt successfully developed state-of-the-art vehicles in the prior SuperTruck and SuperTruck 2 programs. Many of the technologies developed in the earlier SuperTruck programs were deployed in production vehicles, benefiting the environment and PACCAR’s customers. Remanufacturing - Remanufacturing is the industrial process of returning a previously used component to “like-new” condition. Remanufacturing helps the environment by reducing waste. PACCAR’s aftermarket parts division sells remanufactured engines and many other remanufactured components. Connected Trucks and Driver Training - The DAF Connect fleet management system gives fleet customers real-time information on vehicle and driver performance including fuel consumption, fleet utilization, idle time and route optimization. This information enables customers to improve fleet operating efficiency and reduce fuel consumption and CO2 emissions. PACCAR has introduced technologies that train drivers to operate vehicles more efficiently. OTHER DISCLOSURES The Company’s filings on Forms 10‑K, 10‑Q and 8‑K and any amendments to those reports can be found on the Company’s website www.paccar.com free of charge as soon as practicable after the report is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The information on the Company’s website is not incorporated by reference into this report. In addition, the Company’s reports filed with the SEC can be found at www.sec.gov. 8 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY’S EXECUTIVE OFFICERS Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K: Information about the Company’s Executive Officers as of February 23, 2022 is as fo llows: Name and Age Present Position and Other Position(s) Held During Last Five Years Mark C. Pigott (68) Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors since April 2014; Chairman and Chief Executive Officer from 1997 to April 2014. Mr. Pigott is the brother of John M. Pigott, a director of the Company. R. Preston Feight (54) Chief Executive Officer since July 2019; Executive Vice President September 2018 to June 2019; Vice President of PACCAR and President of DAF Trucks N.V. from April 2016 to August 2018. Harrie C.A.M. Schippers (59) President and Chief Financial Officer since January 2018; Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from February 2017 to December 2017; Senior Vice President from April 2016 to February 2017. Michael T. Barkley (66) Senior Vice President and Controller since January 2016. C. Michael Dozier (56) Senior Vice President since January 2020; Vice President of PACCAR from August 2019 to December 2019; Vice President of PACCAR and General Manager, Kenworth from April 2016 to July 2019. John Rich (53) Vice President and Chief Technology Officer since March 2021; Prior to that, he worked for 30 years at Ford Motor Company in positions of increasing responsibility including Director of Autonomous Vehicles and Technology; Chief Operating Officer of AV LLC and Executive Director of Global Strategy. Darrin C. Siver (55) Senior Vice President since January 2017. Kevin D. Baney (51) Vice President of PACCAR and General Manager of Kenworth Truck Company since August 2019; Assistant General Manager – Sales and Marketing, Kenworth from January 2017 to July 2019. David J. Danforth (61) Vice President of PACCAR and General Manager, PACCAR Parts since 2014. Todd R. Hubbard (59) Vice President, Global Financial Services since February 2019; President, PACCAR Financial Corp. from April 2011 to January 2019. Jack K. LeVier (62) Vice President, Human Resources since June 2007. A. Lily Ley (56) Vice President and Chief Information Officer since January 2017. Jason P. Skoog (50) Vice President of PACCAR and General Manager of Peterbilt since April 2018; Assistant General Manager – Operations, Kenworth from January 2017 to March 2018. Michael K. Walton (57) Vice President and General Counsel since August 2020; Senior Counsel from August 2007 to July 2020. Harry M.B. Wolters (51) Vice President of PACCAR and President of DAF Trucks N.V. since September 2018; European Sales Director, DAF Trucks, from October 2017 to August 2018; Operations Director, DAF Trucks from October 2014 to September 2017. Officers are appointed by the Board of Directors annually but may be appointed or removed on interim dates. 9 ITEM 1A.