 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis Of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our audited financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Certain of the information contained in this discussion and analysis or set forth elsewhere in this Annual Report, including information with respect to plans and strategy for Proterra’s business, includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. As a result of many factors, including those factors set forth in the section entitled “ Risk Factors, ” Proterra’s actual results could differ materially from the results described in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in the following discussion and analysis. You should carefully read the section entitled “ Risk Factors ” to gain an understanding of the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from Proterra’s forward-looking statements. Overview We are a leading developer and producer of commercial electric vehicle technology with an integrated business model focused on providing end-to-end solutions that enable commercial vehicle electrification. Our business is organized into two business units comprised of three business lines, with each business line addressing a critical component of commercial vehicle electrification. • Proterra Powered and Energy is our business unit that provides our technology solutions to commercial vehicle manufacturers and owners of commercial fleets, and is comprised of two business lines. • Proterra Powered designs, develops, manufactures, sells, and integrates proprietary battery systems and electrification solutions into vehicles for global commercial vehicle original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) customers serving the Class 3 to Class 8 vehicle segments, including delivery trucks, school buses, and coach buses, as well as construction and mining equipment, and other applications. • Proterra Energy provides turnkey fleet-scale, high-power charging solutions and software services, ranging from fleet and energy management software-as-a-service, to fleet planning, hardware, infrastructure, installation, utility engagement, and charging optimization. These solutions are designed to optimize energy use and costs, and to provide vehicle-to-grid functionality. • Proterra Transit is our business unit that designs, develops, manufactures, and sells electric transit buses as an OEM for North American public transit agencies, airports, universities, and other commercial transit fleets. Proterra Transit vehicles showcase and validate our electric vehicle technology platform 66 through rigorous daily use by a large group of sophisticated customers focused on meeting the wide-ranging needs of the communities they serve. The first application of Proterra Powered commercial vehicle electrification technology was through Proterra Transit’s heavy-duty electric transit bus, which we designed from the ground up for the North American market. Our industry experience, the performance of our transit buses, and compelling total cost of ownership has helped make us the leader in the U.S. electric transit bus market. With over 800 electric transit buses on the road, our electric transit buses have delivered more than 25 million cumulative service miles spanning a wide spectrum of climates, conditions, altitudes and terrains. From this experience, we have been able to continue to iterate and improve our technology. Our decade of experience supplying battery electric heavy duty transit buses provided us the opportunity to validate our products’ performance, fuel efficiency and maintenance costs with a demanding customer base and helped broaden our appeal as a supplier to OEMs in other commercial vehicle segments and geographies. Proterra Powered has partnered with more than a dozen OEMs spanning from Class 3 to Class 8 trucks, several types of buses, and multiple off-highway categories. Through December 31, 2021, Proterra Powered has delivered battery systems and electrification solutions for more than 400 vehicles to our OEM partner customers. In addition, Proterra Energy has established our Company as a leading commercial vehicle charging solution provider by helping fleet operators fulfill the high-power charging needs of commercial electric vehicles and optimize their energy usage, while meeting our customers’ space constraints and continuous service requirements. As of December 31, 2021, we had installed more than 60 MW of charging infrastructure across North America. Through December 31, 2021, we have generated the majority of our revenue from Proterra Transit’s sales of electric transit buses, complemented by additional revenue from Proterra Powered’s sales of battery systems and Proterra Energy’s sales and installation of charging systems, as well as from the sale of spare parts and other services provided to customers. As fleet electrification continues to expand beyond buses to trucks and other commercial vehicles, we expect Proterra Powered and Proterra Energy to grow into a significantly larger portion of our overall business and generate a greater portion of revenue. Through December 31, 2021, our chief operating decision maker, the Chief Executive Officer, reviewed financial information presented at the entity level for ongoing operations and for internal planning and forecasting purposes, and we had a single reportable segment. Proterra Powered’s strategy is to leverage Proterra Transit’s success in the electric transit bus market to showcase the performance of our technology and demonstrate a strong track record of range and reliability in order to provide our battery systems and electrification solutions to other commercial vehicle segments. We believe our success in the transit bus market using our battery systems and electrification solutions to power heavy-duty vehicles with faster acceleration than a diesel-powered bus up steep hills, all while maintaining a rigorous regular schedule of operation with little tolerance for error, helps demonstrate the broad applicability of our technology to other commercial vehicle segments with similar requirements. We sell our electric powertrains using a business development team as well as a channel sales team for certain end markets. These teams work closely with our engineering team to develop optimal electrification solutions for our customers, depending on their vehicle requirements. Enhanced by Proterra Powered’s high performance battery systems and electrification solutions and our purpose-built transit bus vehicle designed to optimize power, weight, and efficiency, Proterra Transit has been a leader in the North American electric transit market since 2012. Our sales efforts are focused on the 400 largest public transit agencies, which range in size from approximately 50 buses to thousands of buses in their fleets. These agencies operate more than 85% of the more than 70,000 transit buses on the road in North America, according to the FTA’s National Transit Database, as well as airports, universities, hospitals, and corporate shuttles. As of December 31, 2021, there are, in aggregate, more than 25,000 buses in operation at fleets that are mandated to convert to 100% zero-emission by 2040, including fleets in the state of California and the cities of New York City, Chicago, and Seattle, among others. The fleet size of our primary public transit agency customer targets ranges between approximately 100 to more than 4,000 buses, and their electrification plans typically involve a phased approach. Our strategy is to maintain the No. 1 market share of the North American electric transit bus market as electric penetration continues to rise by both acquiring new customers and expanding our 67 share of existing customers as transit agencies’ average order rates increase to meet their zero emission targets. We believe we have a competitive advantage in winning new bus sales due to our extensive track record, with more than 800 vehicles on the road which have accumulated more than 25 million real-world service miles spanning a wide spectrum of climates, conditions, altitudes and terrains. We believe that repeat orders of increasing scale represent a considerable growth opportunity for our electric transit buses. After initial purchase, our customers often expand their electric vehicle programs and place additional orders for electric buses and charging systems. Repeat orders lower our customer acquisition costs and increase visibility into our sales pipeline. Many of our existing customers have announced long-term goals to transition to fleets completely comprised of electric vehicles. We have a long sales and production cycle given our customers’ structured procurement processes and vehicle customization requirements, and believe that our proven ability to deliver commercial-quality battery systems, electrification and charging solutions, and electric transit buses gives us a distinct first mover advantage in end markets that are electrifying rapidly. For Proterra Powered, new vehicle development programs for commercial vehicle OEMs typically last between one and three years. As a result, volume production and revenue generation tend to trail initial contract signatures by a few years. For Proterra Transit, public transit agencies typically conduct a request for proposal process before awards are made and purchase orders are issued. Proposals are evaluated on various criteria, including but not limited to technical requirements, reliability, reputation of the manufacturer, and price. This initial sales process from first engagement to award typically ranges from 6 to 18 months. Once a proposal has been awarded, a pre-production process is completed where customer specific options are mutually agreed upon. A final purchase order follows the pre-production process. Procurement of parts and production typically follow the purchase order. Once a bus is fully manufactured, the customer performs a final inspection before accepting delivery, allowing us to recognize revenue. The length of time between a customer award and vehicle acceptance typically varies between 12 and 24 months, depending on product availability and production capacity. We have significant manufacturing capacity already in place and at scale with approximately 350,000 square feet of manufacturing space across three facilities in two states. In City of Industry, California, we operate a battery production facility as well as a bus manufacturing facility. We also operate a battery production facility in Burlingame, California. Our largest bus manufacturing facility is located in Greenville, South Carolina. Battery manufacturing capacity at our City of Industry facility, once fully staffed on a three shift structure, is 675 MWh, sufficient to supply batteries for both our total bus manufacturing capacity of 680 transit buses across our two bus assembly facilities in Greenville, SC and City of Industry, CA, as well as more than 350 MWh of Proterra Powered batteries for third-party customers, equivalent to 1,500 school buses and/or delivery vehicles per year. In November 2021, we entered into a lease arrangement for a new plant with approximately 327,000 square feet at Greer, South Carolina to expand our battery system manufacturing capacity and to multiple gigawatt-hours per year. We have specifically developed our battery modules using a design for manufacturability (DFM) approach that enables high-volume automated production of the module using a modular manufacturing line that can be rapidly built with low capital expenditures. Enabled by the simplicity of design and integrated architecture of our battery modules, we manufacture our battery packs in two widths and heights, various lengths ranging from 3-feet to 9-feet, and four different voltages. In the year ended December 31, 2020, our battery production was 111 MWh and in the year ended December 31, 2021, our production was 189 MWh, a 70% increase year over year. As we increase our production volumes, we believe that we will be able to leverage our historical investments in capacity to reduce our labor and overhead costs as a percentage of total revenue. We currently have sufficient capacity to fulfill our current backlog and anticipated near-term growth. For the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, our total revenue was $242.9 million, $196.9 million, and $181.3 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2021, in aggregate, we have generated revenue of $621.1 million for the past three years. We generated a gross profit of $2.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 and a gross profit of $7.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, and a gross loss of $1.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. We have also invested significant resources in research and development, operations, and sales and marketing to grow our business and, as a result, generated losses from operations of $127.6 million, $96.0 million, and $99.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. 68 Key metrics and select financial data Deliveries We delivered 217 (208 new and 9 pre-owned), 170 and 177 vehicles in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. We delivered battery systems for 273, 107 and 20 vehicles in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Deliveries is an indicator of our ability to convert awarded orders into revenue and demonstrates the scaling of our operations. Vehicles delivered represents the number of buses that have met revenue recognition criteria during a period. Battery systems delivered represents the battery systems sold to OEMs that have met revenue recognition criteria during a period and is measured based on the number of underlying vehicles in which they are to be used. In addition to batteries, battery systems could include drivetrains and high voltage systems and controls, depending upon the customer contract. Growth rates between deliveries and total revenue are not perfectly correlated because our total revenue is affected by other variables, such as the mix of products sold during the period or other services provided in addition to the hardware delivered. Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure that we use to evaluate our ongoing operations and for internal planning and forecasting purposes, because, among other reasons, it eliminates the effect of financing, non-recurring items, capital expenditures, and non-cash expenses such as stock-based compensation and (gain) loss on valuation of derivative and warrant liabilities. We believe that adjusted EBITDA provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management and board of directors. Business Combination On June 14, 2021, we consummated the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, by and among ArcLight, Phoenix Merger Sub, and Legacy Proterra. As contemplated by the Merger Agreement, on June 11, 2021, ArcLight consummated the Domestication. Further, on June 14, 2021, as contemplated by the Merger Agreement, Proterra consummated the Merger. In addition, pursuant to subscription agreements entered into in connection with the Merger Agreement, the PIPE Investors purchased an aggregate of 41,500,000 shares of Proterra common stock concurrently with the Closing for an aggregate purchase price of $415,000,000. We received $649.3 million in net cash proceeds upon Closing to fund our growth initiatives, including research and development and our next-generation battery program. 69 In October 2021, majority of the public warrants and private placement warrants were exercised, and we redeemed the remaining outstanding public warrants at a redemption price of $0.10 per public warrant. Key factors affecting our performance COVID-19 Pandemic: The outbreak of the novel coronavirus COVID-19, which was declared a pandemic by the World Health Organization on March 11, 2020, has led to adverse impacts on the U.S. and global economies and created uncertainty regarding potential impacts to our supply chain, operations, and customer demand. Our manufacturing operations, and our transit agency customers, have been designated as an “Essential Business” under applicable public health orders. We made adjustments to our business operations and have continued to operate with limited interruptions since March 2020 with no material adverse impact to our operations, financial position, or liquidity through December 31, 2021. Most recently, during the third and fourth quarters of 2021, our vehicle and equipment deliveries were impacted by constraints and inefficiencies in production driven by shortages in component parts, particularly resin for connectors, resulting from global supply chain disruptions stemming from the pandemic. Although we achieved revenue growth during the year ended December 30, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020, these disruptions decreased our revenue and increased our overhead. More generally, the COVID-19 pandemic is currently expected to continue to have an impact on our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity. If the outbreak, and related shutdowns, logistics delays, part shortages, production inefficiencies or extended customer order and acceptance processes, are prolonged or worsen, including as a result of variant strains of the virus, it could lead to more significant delays in production, the signing of new customer contracts, and customer acceptances of near-term deliveries. Ability to sell additional powertrains, vehicles, chargers and other products to new and existing customers Our results will be impacted by our ability to sell our battery systems, electrification solutions including charging and energy management software, and electric transit buses, to new and existing customers. We have had initial success with Proterra Powered establishing strategic partnerships and with Proterra Transit selling electric transit buses and chargers to more than 130 customers. Our growth opportunity is dependent on commercial vehicle manufacturers electrifying their product offerings and increasing production as well as transit agencies electrifying more of their fleets, both of which we believe will increase with continued improvement in battery performance and costs over time. Our ability to sell additional products to existing customers is a key part of our success, as follow-on purchases indicate customer satisfaction and decrease the likelihood of competitive substitution. In order to sell additional products to new and existing customers, we will need to continue to invest significant resources in our products and services. If we fail to make the right investment decisions in our technology and electrification solutions, including our battery systems and electrification and charging solutions, if customers do not adopt our technology or our products and services, or if our competitors are able to develop technology or products and services that are superior to ours, our business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results could be adversely affected. Ability to improve profit margins and scale our business We intend to continue investing in initiatives to improve our operating leverage and significantly ramp production. We believe continued reduction in costs and an increase in production volumes will enable commercial vehicle manufacturers to electrify faster. Purchased materials represent the largest component of cost of goods sold in all products and we continue to explore ways to reduce these costs through improved design for cost, strategic sourcing, long-term contracts, and in some cases vertical integration. We launched two new manufacturing facilities in 2017 and a new battery manufacturing facility in 2020. We believe that an increase in volume and additional experience will allow us to leverage those investments and reduce our labor and overhead costs, as well as our freight costs, as a percentage of total revenue. By reducing material costs, increasing facility utilization rates and improving overall economies of scale, we can reduce prices while maintaining or growing gross margins of our products to improve customers’ total cost of ownership and help accelerate commercial electric vehicle adoption. Our ability to achieve our cost-saving and production-efficiency objectives could be negatively impacted by a variety of factors including, among other things, lower-than-expected facility utilization rates, manufacturing and production cost overruns, increased purchased material costs, and unexpected supply-chain quality issues or interruptions. If we are unable to achieve our goals, we may not be able to reduce price 70 enough to accelerate commercial vehicle electrification and our cost of goods sold and operating costs could be greater than anticipated, which would negatively impact gross margin and profitability. Continued emissions regulation and environmental stewardship Our business benefits from international, federal, state, and local government interest in regulating air pollution and greenhouse gas emissions that contribute to global climate change. In July 2020, 15 states, including California and New York, pledged to work jointly towards a unified goal of zero emissions for 100% of new sales of medium- and heavy-duty commercial vehicles by 2050. In August 2019, the European Union passed Regulation 2019/1242, mandating a reduction in emissions from new trucks by 2025 and 2030. In addition, a growing number of cities and transit agencies have pledged to convert their entire transit bus fleets to zero-emission vehicles by a specific target date, and many have already begun to purchase electric vehicles in order to meet this goal. For example, on December 14, 2018, the California Air Resources Board adopted a state-wide mandate, the Innovative Clean Transit Rule, mandating transit agencies to commit to purchasing zero-emission buses starting in 2029. The Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act enacted on November 15, 2021 will provide additional funding for electric vehicles and electric vehicle charging infrastructure through the creation of new programs and grants and the expansion of existing programs, including over $4.0 billion to replace existing buses with zero emission buses and at least $2.5 billion to replace existing school buses with zero emission school buses. The move away from diesel- and natural gas-powered commercial vehicles is a significant step forward to accelerate the use of advanced technologies in medium- and heavy-duty vehicles to meet air quality and public health, thereby boosting near-term deployment of battery-electric commercial vehicles. As legacy internal combustion engine technology becomes more heavily regulated and costly across the globe, commercial vehicle manufacturers are investing in electrification. While this investment may increase competition, we believe that it will also increase customer demand, and help build the necessary supply chain and adjacent industry investments to support powertrain electrification. However, the uncertainty related to the passage of new legislation could impact the timing and number of vehicle orders, and any reduction in governmental interest in emissions regulation could negatively impact our business prospects or operating results. Government programs accelerating adoption of zero-emission vehicles Federal and state funding has accelerated the adoption of electric vehicles in our target markets. For instance, our U.S. transit customers have partially funded electric bus purchases through competitive grant programs, including the Low or No Emission Vehicle Program authorized by the federal Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act in 2015, and other state-specific funding. In the United States, states are also allocating portions of settlement funds from the approximately $15 billion Volkswagen Emissions Settlement Program to investments in zero-emission transit buses and school buses. We expect that the continued availability of government funding for our customers to help fund purchases of our electric transit buses and battery systems will remain an important factor in our company’s growth prospects. Components of results of operations Revenue We derive revenue primarily from the sale of vehicles, the sale of battery and powertrain systems, the sale and installation of charging systems, as well as the sale of spare parts and other services provided to customers. Product revenue. Product revenue consists of revenue earned from the sale of vehicles, sale of battery and powertrain systems as well as sales and installation of charging systems. We generally recognize product revenue from contracts with customers for the sales of our vehicles once we deliver a vehicle to a customer. A vehicle is considered delivered once met revenue recognition criteria. Revenue from the sale of battery and powertrain systems is typically recognized upon shipping. Revenue from sales and installation of charging systems is typically recognized at a point of time once met revenue recognition criteria. Under certain contract arrangements, revenue related to the charging systems is recognized over the installation period using an input measure based on costs incurred to date relative to total estimated costs to completion. Product revenue also includes revenue from leasing vehicles and charging systems under operating leases. Revenue from operating lease arrangements is recognized ratably over the lease term. The amount of product revenue we recognize in a given period depends on the number of vehicles accepted and the type of financing used by the customer. 71 Parts and other service revenue. Parts and other service revenue includes sales of spare parts, revenue earned from the development of electric vehicle powertrain components, the design and development of battery and drive systems for other vehicle manufacturers, and sales of extended warranties. The amount of parts and service revenue tends to grow with the number of vehicles delivered. However, variability can exist as customers have different methodologies for sourcing spare parts for their fleets. Revenue related to the design, development and integration of battery and drive systems is typically recognized upon shipping or delivery of services and prototypes, depending on the terms in customer contracts. For a description of our revenue recognition policies, see the section titled “— Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates.” Cost of goods sold Product cost of goods sold. Product cost of goods sold consists primarily of direct material and labor costs, manufacturing overhead, other personnel-related expenses, which include salaries, bonuses, benefits, and stock-based compensation expense, reserves for estimated warranty costs, freight expense, and depreciation expense. Product cost of goods sold also includes charges to write-down the carrying value of inventory when it exceeds its estimated net realizable value, including on-hand inventory that is either obsolete or in excess of forecasted demand. We expect our product cost of goods sold to increase in absolute dollars in future periods as we sell more vehicles and charging systems. As we grow into our current capacity and execute on cost-reduction initiatives, we expect our product cost of goods sold as a percentage of revenue to decrease over time. Parts and other service cost of goods sold. Parts and other service cost of goods sold consists primarily of material costs and the cost of services provided, including field service costs and costs related to our development team. We record costs of development services incurred in periods prior to the finalization of an agreement as research and development expense. Once a development agreement is finalized, we record these costs in parts and other service cost of goods sold. We expect our parts and other service cost of goods sold to increase in absolute dollars in future periods as more customers put additional vehicles into service and sign new development agreements. Because purchased materials comprise more than 50% of cost of goods sold, lowering our bill of materials cost is our most critical cost reduction initiative. Bill of materials cost reduction is a cross-functional effort involving engineering, supply chain, manufacturing, and finance. These cost-reduction efforts have yielded improvements in bill of materials costs since 2018, and we have identified additional opportunities to address cost reduction in the near and medium term. Gross profit (loss) and margin Gross profit (loss) is total revenue less total cost of goods sold. Gross margin is gross profit (loss) expressed as a percentage of total revenue. Our gross profit (loss) and margin may fluctuate from period-to-period. Such fluctuations have been and will continue to be affected by a variety of factors, including the timing of vehicle acceptance, mix of products sold, manufacturing costs, financing options, and warranty costs. We expect our gross margin to improve over time as we continue to scale our operations and execute on cost reduction initiatives. Operating expenses Research and development. Research and development expense consists primarily of personnel-related expenses, consulting and contractor expenses, validation and testing expense, prototype parts and materials, depreciation expense, and allocated overhead costs. Through December 31, 2021, we have expensed certain software development costs related to our fleet and energy management platform as incurred because technological feasibility has not been fully achieved. We intend to continue to make significant investments in developing new products and enhancing existing products. Research and development expense will be variable relative to the number of products that are in development, validation or testing. However, we expect it to decline as a percentage of total revenue over time. 72 Selling, general and administrative. Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel-related expenses for our sales, marketing, supply chain, finance, legal, human resources, and administrative personnel, as well as the costs of customer service, information technology, professional services, insurance, travel, allocated overhead, and other marketing, communications and administrative expenses. We will continue to actively promote our products. We also expect to invest in our corporate organization and incur additional expenses associated with transitioning to, and operating as, a public company, including increased legal and accounting costs, investor relations costs, higher insurance premiums, and compliance costs. As a result, we expect that selling, general and administrative expenses will increase in absolute dollars in future periods but decline as a percentage of total revenue over time. Interest expense, net Interest expense, net consists primarily of interest expense associated with our debt facilities and amortization of debt discount and issuance costs. Interest income consists primarily of interest income earned on our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments balances. (Gain) loss on valuation of derivative and warrant liabilities (Gain) loss on valuation of derivative and warrant liabilities relates to the changes in the fair value of derivative and warrant liabilities, which are subject to remeasurement at each balance sheet date. Other expense (income), net Other expense (income), net primarily relates to sublease income and currency fluctuations that generate foreign exchange gains or losses on invoices denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, sublease income, amortization of short-term investment premium/discount, and other non-operational financial gains or losses. Provision for income taxes We are subject to income taxes in the United States and certain states, but due to our net operating loss position, we have not recognized any material provision or benefit through December 31, 2021. Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. A valuation allowance is provided when it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will not be realized. We have established a full valuation allowance to offset our U.S. net deferred tax assets due to the uncertainty of realizing future tax benefits from our net operating loss carryforwards and other deferred tax assets. As of December 31, 2021, we had U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards of $599.7 million, and state net operating loss carryforwards of $437.9 million. The federal net operating loss carryforwards generated prior to 2018 will begin to expire in 2030, and the federal net operating loss carryforwards generated since 2018 do not expire. The state net operating loss carryforwards will begin to expire in 2023. Also, as of December 31, 2021, we had U.S. federal research and development tax credit carryforwards of $3.5 million, and state research and development tax credit carryforwards of $2.5 million. The federal research credits begin to expire in 2037, and the South Carolina research and development tax credit carryforwards begin to expire in 2027. California state research and development tax credit carryforwards have no expiration date. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards and other tax attributes to reduce future taxable income and liabilities may be subject to limitations based on possible ownership changes in the future. As a result, if we earn net taxable income, our ability to use our pre-change net operating loss carryforwards or other pre-change tax attributes to offset U.S. federal and state taxable income may still be subject to limitations, which could potentially result in increased future tax liability to us. Additionally, a challenge by a taxing authority, a change in our ability to utilize tax benefits such as carryforwards or tax credits, or a deviation from other tax-related assumptions may cause actual financial results to deviate from previous estimates. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, California’s Legislature passed Assembly Bill 85 (“A.B. 85”), which suspends the use of net operating losses for tax years beginning in 2020, 2021, and 2022 for taxpayers with 73 taxable income of $1.0 million or more before an application of net operating loss. A.B. 85 includes an extended carryover period for the suspended net operating losses with an additional year carryforward for each year of suspension. A.B. 85 also limits the utilization of business incentive tax credits for taxable years 2020, 2021, and 2022, requiring that taxpayers can only claim a maximum of $5.0 million in tax credit on an aggregate basis. However, since we continue to generate taxable losses, this did not have an impact on our operating results or financial condition. Results of operations The following tables set forth our results of operations for the periods presented and as a percentage of our total revenue for those periods. Percentages presented in the following tables may not sum due to rounding. (1) Includes stock-based compensation as follows: 74 (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Comparison of the Year Ended December 31, 2021 and Year Ended December 31, 2020 Revenue Total revenue increased by $45.9 million in the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. The $42.0 million increase in product revenue was primarily due to $38.0 million increase of vehicle revenue and $11.5 million increase of battery systems revenue, which was offset by $7.3 million decreased revenue from charging systems and installation revenue. We delivered and our customers accepted 217 buses in the year ended December 31, 2021 as compared to 170 buses accepted in the year ended December 31, 2020. Both production and deliveries during fiscal year 2020 were negatively impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic due to inefficiencies experienced with required safety measures and complications with inspections and regulatory testing. Both production and deliveries during fiscal year 2021 were negatively impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic due to supplier constraints and delays in equipment delivery. For the year ended December 31, 2021, we delivered battery systems for 273 vehicles, which increased from 107 vehicles for the year ended December 31, 2020. Parts and other service revenue increased by $3.9 million in the year ended 75 December 31, 2021 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily as a result of a $2.2 million increase in prototype sales and $1.6 million increase of service revenue. Cost of goods sold and gross profit Cost of goods sold increased by $51.4 million in the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. The $47.2 million increase in product cost of goods sold was mainly driven by an increase in vehicle and battery systems delivered. To support the growth, we have increased headcount, which increased personnel related expense by $7.3 million. However, COVID-19 related supply chain interruptions caused delays in production, which negatively impacted our ability to absorb such increased labor and manufacturing overhead costs. The $4.2 million increase in parts and other service cost of goods sold was primarily the result of the increased volume and product mix of prototype revenue and increased personnel cost of the service department. Gross profit decreased by $5.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020, which was mainly due to the unabsorbed labor and manufacturing overhead costs from delayed production caused by parts shortages stemming from the COVID-19 related supply chain interruption. Operating expenses Research and development Research and development expense increased by $7.6 million in the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. The increase was primarily due to an increase in personnel related expenses of $6.4 million and stock-based compensation of $0.9 million, an increase in professional and consulting fees of $0.5 million to support increased product development efforts, and an increase in IT expense of $0.7 million. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in prototype parts and tools expense of $1.5 million following the completion of the development of the advanced composite bus body and the ZX5 bus platform. Selling, general and administrative Selling, general and administrative expense increased by $18.7 million in the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily due to an increase in personnel related expenses of $7.3 million and stock-based compensation of $4.4 million, an increase in insurance expense of $3.5 million, an increase in IT expense of $2.0 million due to increased cybersecurity measures, more users and incremental data usage costs, and an increase in travel expense of $1.2 million as a result of the relaxation of COVID-19 restrictions. 76 Asset impairment charge In 2020, we incurred an impairment charge of $0.1 million related to certain operating lease right-of-use assets due to the execution of a sublease agreement. Interest expense, net Interest expense, net increased by $35.6 million in the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily due to the write-off of $21.0 million of unamortized debt issuance costs associated with the Convertible Notes with an original aggregate principal of $46.5 million that were converted upon the Closing of the Business Combination, and additional interest expense resulting from the original aggregate principal of $200.0 million of Convertible Notes issued in August 2020. These amounts were offset by increased interest income earned on investments from cash equivalents and short-term investments. For more information regarding the Convertible Notes, see “—Liquidity and capital resources” below. Loss on valuation of derivative and warrant liabilities The $70.2 million loss in the year ended December 31, 2021 was related to losses on revaluation of the derivative and warrant liabilities arising from the Convertible Notes and related warrants of $111.7 million and $47.3 million, respectively, offset by the $50.3 million and $38.6 million of gains recognized on revaluation of the liabilities arising from the public warrants and private placement warrants, respectively. The $13.0 million loss in the year ended December 31, 2020 related to the fair value change of derivative and warrant liabilities arising from the Convertible Notes. Other expense, net Other expense, net includes currency fluctuations that generate foreign exchange gains or losses on invoices denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, sublease income and other non-operational financial losses. The higher expense in the year ended December 31, 2020 was mainly due to foreign exchange rate fluctuations in the first quarter of 2020, and other non-operational financial gains or losses. Provision for income taxes We are subject to income taxes in the United States and certain states, but due to our net operating loss position, we have not recognized any material provision or benefit through December 31, 2021. In the years 77 ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, we recorded a provision for taxes in certain states, where tax is not based solely on income before taxes. Comparison of the Year Ended December 31, 2020 and Year Ended December 31, 2019 Revenue Total revenue increased by $15.7 million in the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. The $18.1 million increase in product revenue was primarily due to a $13.7 million increase of battery systems revenue, a $5.4 million increase of vehicle revenue including battery lease assignment, and a $0.4 million increase of charging systems revenue in the year ended December 31, 2020, which was offset by decreased revenue from leasing in the year ended December 31, 2020. We delivered and our customers accepted 170 buses in the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to 177 buses accepted in the year ended December 31, 2019. COVID-19 impacted both production and deliveries due to inefficiencies experienced with required safety measures and complications with inspections and regulatory testing. However, the financial impact from the decrease of vehicles delivered in 2020 was offset by the higher selling price due to product mix. For the year ended December 31, 2020, we delivered battery systems for 107 vehicles, which is increased from 20 vehicles for the year ended December 31, 2019. Parts and other service revenue decreased by $2.5 million in the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019 primarily as a result of a $4.0 million decrease in prototype sales in 2020 as certain 2019 development programs converted to OEM battery system sales in 2020. Cost of goods sold and gross profit Cost of goods sold increased by $6.5 million in the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. The $8.6 million increase in product cost of goods sold was mainly driven by the increase in battery systems sold, the increased cost in vehicles delivered, which is correlated to the increase in average vehicle selling price, and unabsorbed labor and manufacturing overhead costs due to COVID-19 related delays in production. These increases were partially offset by a $2.6 million increase in reduction of pre-existing vehicle warranty liabilities. The $2.1 million decrease in parts and other service cost of goods sold was primarily the result of decreased prototype sales, which were partially offset by the increased cost from higher headcount in the service organization to meet the needs of our growing customer base. Gross profit improved by $9.2 million to a gross profit of $7.5 million in the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to a gross loss of $1.6 million in the year ended December 31, 2019. The improvement of gross profit was primarily driven by the increased volume of battery systems sold, product mix, and lower vehicle warranty costs. 78 Operating expenses Research and development Research and development expense increased by $0.8 million in the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. The increase was primarily due to the design of new features and functionality for our buses and APEX software. Personnel expenses and IT expense increased by $1.9 million and $0.6 million in the year ended December 31, 2020 when compared to the year ended December 31, 2019 due to increased product development efforts. These increases were partially offset by the decrease in prototype parts and tools expense of $0.8 million due to more stability in the bus platform, and the decrease in travel expense of $0.8 million due to COVID-19. Selling, general and administrative Selling, general and administrative expense increased by $11.0 million in the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the year ended December 31, 2019 primarily due to an increase in contract labor and consulting expense of $4.3 million, professional fees of $3.6 million, stock-based compensation expense of $1.5 million and IT expenses of $1.5 million. Contract labor and consulting expense was mainly related to market studies, certain process improvement projects and supplier development expenses. Stock-based compensation and personnel expenses increased due to higher headcount related to the growth in the business. The increase of professional fees was primarily the result of the write-off of $2.2 million of deferred financing costs for our previously contemplated IPO based upon our pursuit of the Business Combination. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in travel expense of $1.8 million due to COVID-19. Asset impairment charge In 2020, we incurred an impairment charge of $0.1 million related to certain operating lease right-of-use assets due to the execution of a sublease agreement. In 2019, we incurred an impairment charge of $6.4 million related to certain assets leased to customers due to introduction of new products and related technological advancements and the resulting change in expectations for the future cash flows associated with those assets. Interest expense, net Interest expense, net increased by $12.7 million in the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the year ended December 31, 2019 primarily due to additional interest expense resulting from the Convertible Notes and decreased interest income earned on investments from cash equivalents and short-term investments. 79 Loss on valuation of derivative and warrant liabilities The $13.0 million loss in the year ended December 31, 2020 related to the non-cash fair value change of derivative and warrant liabilities arising from the Convertible Notes. Other (income) expense, net In the year ended December 31, 2020, we recognized other expense of $2.6 million, compared to other income of $0.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. Other income and expense includes sublease income, currency fluctuations that generate foreign exchange gains or losses on invoices denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, and other non-operational financial losses. Provision for income taxes We are subject to income taxes in the United States and certain states, but due to our net operating loss position, we have not recognized any provision or benefit until 2020. In the year ended December 31, 2020, we booked a provision for taxes in certain states, where tax is not based solely on income before taxes. Liquidity and capital resources As of December 31, 2021, we had cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments of $661.0 million. Our primary requirements for liquidity and capital are investment in new products and technologies, the improvement and expansion of existing manufacturing facilities, working capital, debt service, and general corporate needs. Historically, these cash requirements have been met through the net proceeds we received through private sales of equity securities, borrowings under our credit facilities, and payments received from customers. We believe that our sources of existing cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, funds raised in connection with the Business Combination and the PIPE Financing, funds available under our Senior Credit Facility described in more detail below, and payments from customers will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs for at least the next twelve months. However, if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations in the future, or fund availability under our Senior Credit Facility is not sufficient, we may have to obtain additional equity or debt financing. The issuance and sale of additional equity would result in further dilution to our stockholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased fixed obligations and could result in significant financial and operating covenants that would restrict our operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain refinancing or additional financing on favorable terms or at all. With the funds raised in connection with the Business Combination and the PIPE Financing, we expect no additional capital will be needed to execute our business plan over the next 12 months. We will continue to invest in increasing and optimizing production and expanding the portfolio of products and services. These investments will be approached with a view to improving profitability in the long-term. Senior Credit Facility In May 2019, we entered into a Loan, Guaranty and Security Agreement (the “Senior Credit Facility”), which is a senior secured asset-based lending facility with borrowing capacity up to $75.0 million. The Senior Credit Facility is available on a revolving basis through the earlier of May 2024 or 91 days prior to the stated maturity of any subordinated debt in aggregate amount of $7.5 million or more. The maximum availability under the Senior 80 Credit Facility is based on certain specified percentages of eligible accounts receivable and inventory, subject to certain reserves, to be determined in accordance with the Senior Credit Facility. The commitment under the Senior Credit Facility includes a $10.0 million letter of credit sub-line. Subject to certain conditions, the commitment may be increased by $50.0 million upon approval by the lender, and at our option, the commitment can be reduced to $25.0 million or terminated upon at least 15 days written notice. The Senior Credit Facility is secured by a security interest on substantially all our assets except for intellectual property and other restricted property. Borrowings under the Senior Credit Facility bear interest at per annum rates equal to, at our option, either (i) the base rate plus an applicable margin for base rate loan, or (ii) the London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR, plus an applicable margin for LIBOR loan. The base rate is calculated as the greater of (a) the Lender prime rate, (b) the federal funds rate plus 0.5%, and (c) one-month LIBOR plus 1.0%. The applicable margin is calculated based on a pricing grid linked to quarterly average excess availability (as a percentage of borrowing capacity). For base rate loans, the applicable margin ranges from 0.0% to 1.5%, and for LIBOR Loans, it ranges from 1.5% to 3.0%. The unused line fee is 0.375% per annum of the actual daily amount of the unutilized revolver commitment and will be reduced to 0.25% under certain conditions. The Senior Credit Facility contains certain customary non-financial covenants. In addition, the Senior Credit Facility requires us to maintain a Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio of at least 1.00:1.00 during such times as a covenant trigger event shall exist. As of December 31, 2021, we do not have outstanding balance under this credit facility although we utilized $14.4 million of the facility’s borrowing capacity for letters of credit. Small Business Administration Loan In May 2020, we received SBA loan proceeds of $10.0 million from Town Center Bank pursuant to the Paycheck Protection Program (the “PPP loan”) under CARES Act. The PPP loan was in the form of a note that originally matured on May 6, 2022, and which was extended to May 2025 based on the SBA’s interim final rule. As of December 31, 2021, the interest rate is 1.0% per annum and interest is payable monthly commencing in October 2021. All or a portion of the loan may be forgiven by the SBA upon application with supporting documentation of expenditures in accordance with SBA requirements, which include employees being kept on the payroll for eight weeks after the date of the loan and the proceeds being used for payroll, rent, mortgage interest, or utilities. In January 2022, the SBA denied our PPP loan forgiveness application on the grounds that the Company was subject to a size standard that applies to businesses under NAICS Code 488999 (all other support services for transportation). We have filed an appeal on the grounds that the NAICS code that applies to our business activity is NAICS Code 336120 (heavy duty truck and bus manufacturing). Secured Convertible Promissory Notes In August 2020, we entered into the Convertible Notes. The Convertible Notes have an aggregate principal amount of $200.0 million, with a cash interest of 5.0% per annum payable at each quarter end and a paid-in-kind interest of 4.5% per annum payable by increasing the principal balance at each quarter end. The Convertible Notes will mature in August 2025, and the Company may not make prepayment unless approved by the required holders of the Convertible Notes. Each of the Convertible Notes shall rank equally without preference or priority of any kind over one another, but senior in all rights, privileges and preferences to all other shares of our capital stock and all other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for our capital stock directly or indirectly. Prior to the maturity date or conversion of the entire balance of the Convertible Notes, in the event of a liquidation or sale of the Company, we shall pay to the holders of Convertible Notes the greater of (i) 150% of the principal balance of the Convertible Notes or (ii) the consideration that the holders would have received had the holders elected to convert the Convertible Notes into preferred stock immediately prior to such liquidation event. 81 The Convertible Notes do not entitle the holders to any voting rights or other rights as a stockholder of the Company, unless and until the Convertible Notes are actually converted into shares of our capital stock in accordance with their terms. The Note Purchase Agreement contains certain customary non-financial covenants. In addition, the Note Purchase Agreement requires us to maintain liquidity at quarter end of not less than the greater of (i) $75.0 million and (ii) four times of cash burn for the three-month period then ended. In connection with the issuance of the Convertible Notes, we issued to the purchasers of the Convertible Notes warrants to purchase 4.6 million shares of our stock at an exercise price of $0.02 per share. These warrants are freestanding financial instruments and, prior to the Closing, were classified as liability due to the possibility that they could become exercisable into Legacy Proterra convertible preferred stock. The warrant liability was remeasured on a recurring basis at each reporting period date, with the change in fair value reported in the statement of operations. Upon any exercise of the warrants for shares of common stock, the carrying amount of the warrant liability was reclassified to stockholders’ equity. Upon the consummation of the Merger, the warrants became exercisable for Proterra common stock, with no possibility to convert to Legacy Proterra convertible preferred stock. As a result, the carrying amount of the warrant liability was reclassified to stockholders’ equity. The loss from change in fair value of the warrant liability was $47.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. An aggregate of $69.3 million in warrant liability was reclassified to additional paid-in capital upon exercise and consummation of the Merger. In the fourth quarter of 2021, all remaining outstanding warrants were exercised for shares of common stock. Prior to the Closing, the embedded features of the Convertible Notes were composed of conversion options that had the economic characteristics of a contingent early redemption feature settled in shares of our stock rather than cash, because the total number of shares of our stock delivered to settle these embedded features would predominantly have a fixed value. These conversion options were bifurcated and accounted for separately from the host debt instrument. The derivative liability of $68.5 million was initially measured at fair value on its issuance date and recorded as a debt discount and was amortized during the term of the Convertible Notes to interest expense using effective interest method. The derivative liability was remeasured on a recurring basis at each reporting period date, with the change in fair value reported in the statement of operations. The loss from the change in fair value of the derivative liability was $111.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. Upon the consummation of the Merger, the embedded conversion features associated with the Convertible Notes no longer qualified for derivative accounting since the conversion price became fixed. The $182.6 million carrying amount of the embedded derivative, fair value as of the date of the Closing, was reclassified to stockholders’ equity in accordance with Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging. At the closing of the Merger, certain Convertible Note holders with an original aggregate principal amount of $46.5 million elected to convert their Convertible Notes at the Closing of the Business Combination, resulting in the issuance of 7.4 million shares of common stock. An aggregate of $48.8 million principal and interest was reclassified to stockholders’ equity, and $21.0 million of remaining related debt issuance costs were expensed to interest expense. As of December 31, 2021, the outstanding balance of the Convertible Notes was $163.3 million including PIK interest of $9.8 million. The remaining Convertible Notes including accrued interest will be automatically converted to common stock at $6.5712 per share pursuant to the mandatory conversion provisions, if and when the VWAP of our common stock exceeds $9.86 over 20 consecutive days subsequent to January 13, 2022. Performance bonds Public transit agencies may require their suppliers to obtain performance bonds from surety companies or letters of credit to protect against non-performance. These performance guarantees are normally valid from contract effective date to completion of the contract, which is generally upon customer acceptance of the vehicle. Surety companies limit the maximum coverage they will provide based on financial performance and do not provide committed bonding facilities. Currently, we are required to cash collateralize a portion of the total performance bond amount. The collateral provided is shown as restricted cash on the balance sheet. As of 82 December 31, 2021, we had $12.6 million of restricted cash related to performance bonds. We believe that we currently have sufficient capacity to meet the performance guarantee needs of our business through our arrangements with our primary surety provider. Cash flows The following table summarizes our cash flows: Operating activities Net cash used in operating activities in 2021 was $126.3 million compared to $76.1 million in 2020. In both years, the cash used in operating activities was due to net losses and increases in working capital. The increase in net loss of $123.0 million in the year ended December 31, 2021 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2020 included increases of non-cash items of $57.2 million of loss on change in the fair value of derivative and warrant liabilities, $33.5 million of interest expense and debt discount and issuance costs amortization expense, and $5.8 million of stock-based compensation expense. For the year ended December 31, 2021, cash used in operating activities primarily related to $29.9 million, $20.2 million, and $8.0 million for accounts receivable, inventory, prepaid expenses and other current assets, respectively, and was partially offset by cash provided by accounts payable and accrued liabilities and deferred revenue of $27.4 million and $6.6 million, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2020, cash used in operating activities primarily related to $7.2 million and $4.1 million for accounts receivable and accounts payable and accrued liabilities, respectively, and was partially offset by cash provided by deferred revenue, inventory, and other non-current liabilities of $9.6 million, $2.2 million, and $2.2 million, respectively. Net cash used in operating activities in 2020 was $76.1 million compared to $97.3 million in 2019. In both years, the cash used in operating activities was due to net losses and increases in working capital. The increase in net loss of $25.5 million in the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019 included increases of non-cash items of $13.0 million of loss on change in the fair value of derivative and warrant liabilities, $8.6 million of interest expense and debt discount and issuance costs amortization increased by $2.9 million of depreciation expense, and $1.8 million of stock-based compensation expense. For the year ended December 31, 2020, cash used in operating activities primarily related to $7.2 million and $4.1 million for accounts receivable and accounts payable and accrued liabilities, respectively, and was partially offset by cash provided by deferred revenue, inventory, and other non-current liabilities of $9.6 million, $2.2 million, and $2.2 million, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2019, cash used in operating activities primarily related to $15.7 million, $9.0 million and $4.7 million for inventory, accounts receivables and other assets, respectively, and was partially offset by cash provided by deferred cost of goods sold of $4.2 million. Investing activities Net cash used in investment activities was $447.3 million in the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to $54.5 million in the year ended December 31, 2020. The $392.8 million change was primarily driven by a net increase of $394.9 million related to the purchase of investments in the year ended December 31, 2021 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2020, and a $2.1 million increase in capital expenditures. The increased purchase of investments was driven by our investment of the net proceeds from the Business Combination. 83 Net cash used in investment activities was $54.5 million in the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to $35.2 million in the year ended December 31, 2019. The change is primarily driven by an $11.8 million increase in capital expenditures and $7.5 million of net increase of purchase of investments. Financing activities Net cash provided by financing activities was $632.4 million, $200.6 million, and $83.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The net cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily resulted from net proceeds of $644.7 million from the Business Combination and the PIPE Financing and $6.8 million from the exercise of stock options and warrants, which was partially offset by a Senior Credit Facility repayment of $17.1 million. The net cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily resulted from proceeds from borrowings of $200.0 million through the issuance of Convertible Notes, $14.5 million under the Senior Credit Facility, $10.0 million from PPP loan, and $4.2 million from the exercise of stock options, offset by $12.8 million repayment under the Senior Credit Facility and $10.0 million repayment of a prior credit facility with Hercules Capital, Inc. For the year ended December 31, 2019, we received net proceeds of $86.7 million from the issuance of Series 8 convertible preferred stock, $21.4 million in proceeds from borrowing under the Senior Credit Facility, and $1.7 million in proceeds from the exercise of stock options. Off-balance sheet arrangements We have not created, and are not party to, any special-purpose or off-balance sheet entities for the purpose of raising capital, incurring debt, or operating our business. With the exception of letters of credit primarily used to guarantee payments under a product supply agreement, a lease arrangement, or performance bond obligations, we do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements or relationships with entities that are not disclosed in our consolidated financial statements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a material current or future effect on our financial condition, revenue, expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources. In addition, we do not engage in trading activities involving non-exchange traded contracts. Contractual obligations The purchase commitments including purchase orders or contracts for the purchase of certain goods and services was $2.1 billion as of December 31, 2021, of which 11% was expected to due within one year, 28% in 2023 and 2024, and the remainder thereafter through 2028. The Convertible Notes had an outstanding principal amount including PIK interest of $163.3 million as of December 31, 2021, which will mature in August 2025. The outstanding balances will be automatically converted into common stock at $6.5712 per share pursuant to the mandatory conversion provisions, if and when the VWAP of our common stock exceeds $9.86 over 20 consecutive days subsequent to January 13, 2022. Critical accounting policies and estimates Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires us to make estimates, assumptions, and judgments that affect amounts of assets and liabilities reported in the financial statements, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements and reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the applicable periods. We base our estimates, assumptions, and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Different assumptions and judgments would change the estimates used in the preparation of our financial statements, which, in turn, could change the results from those reported. We evaluate our estimates, assumptions, and judgments on an ongoing basis. The critical accounting estimates, assumptions, and judgments that we believe have the most significant impact on our financial statements are described below. Revenue recognition We derive revenue primarily from the sale of vehicles and charging systems, the installation of charging equipment, and the sale of batteries and powertrain components to other vehicle manufacturers, as well as the 84 sale of spare parts and other services provided to customers. Product revenue consists of revenue earned from vehicles and charging systems, batteries and powertrain components, installation of charging systems, and revenue from leased vehicles, charging systems, and batteries under operating leases. Parts and other service revenue includes revenue earned from spare parts, the design and development of battery and drive systems for other vehicle manufacturers, and extended warranties. Customer contracts typically have multiple performance obligations. Generally, our goods and services are considered separate performance obligations. Development services are typically sold on a stand-alone basis and are not bundled with other goods or services. We recognize revenue when or as we satisfy a performance obligation by transferring control of a product or service to a customer. Amounts collected in advance of meeting all of the revenue recognition criteria are not recognized in the statement of operations and are instead recorded as deferred revenue on the balance sheets. Warranty We provide a limited warranty to customers on vehicles, charging systems, and battery and powertrain systems. The limited warranty ranges from one to twelve years depending on the components. Separately, we also periodically perform field service actions related to product service campaigns. Pursuant to these warranties and field service actions, we will repair, replace, or adjust the parts on the products that are defective in factory-supplied materials or workmanship. We record a warranty reserve for the products sold at the point of revenue recognition, which includes the best estimate of the projected costs to repair or replace items under the limited warranty and field service actions. These estimates are based on actual claims incurred to date and an estimate of the nature, frequency, and costs of future claims. These estimates are inherently uncertain given our relatively short history of sales, and changes to the historical or projected warranty experience may cause material changes to the warranty reserve in the future. The warranty reserve does not include projected warranty costs associated with the vehicles subject to lease accounting, as the costs to repair these warranty claims are expensed as incurred. The portion of the warranty reserve expected to be incurred within the next twelve months is included within accrued liabilities while the remaining balance is included within other long-term liabilities on the balance sheets. Stock-based compensation expense We use the fair value method for recording stock-based compensation expense. Stock-based compensation expense for stock options is estimated at the grant date based on each stock option’s fair value as calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. We recognize stock-based compensation expense for stock option grants on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period for the entire award. Determining the fair value of stock-based awards at the grant date requires judgment. The determination of the grant date fair value of stock options using an option pricing model is affected by our estimated common stock fair value prior to the Merger Close, as well as assumptions regarding a number of complex and subjective variables. The major subjective assumptions used in the Black-Scholes option pricing model are estimated as follows: Expected volatility. Since the Company has limited trading history by which to determine the volatility of its own common stock price, the expected volatility being used is primarily derived from the historical stock volatility of a representative industry peer group of comparable publicly listed companies over a period approximately equal to the expected term of the stock options. Common stock valuations. Historically, for all periods prior to our Merger Close, the fair value of our common stock was determined by our board of directors, with input from management, taking into account our most recent valuations from an independent third-party valuation firm. Our board of directors intended all stock options granted to have an exercise price per share not less than the per share fair value of our common stock on the date of grant. The valuations of our common stock were determined in accordance with the guidelines outlined in the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Practice Aid, Valuation of Privately-Held-Company Equity Securities Issued as Compensation. The assumptions we use in the valuation models were based on future 85 expectations combined with management judgment, and considered numerous objective and subjective factors to determine the fair value of our common stock as of the date of each option grant, including the following factors: • the liquidation preferences, rights, and privileges of our convertible preferred stock relative to the common stock; • our actual operating and financial performance; • current business conditions and projections; • our stage of development; • the likelihood and timing of achieving a liquidity event for the shares of common stock underlying the stock options, such as an initial public offering or sale of our company, given prevailing market conditions; • any adjustment necessary to recognize a lack of marketability of the common stock underlying the granted options; • the market performance of comparable publicly traded companies; and • the U.S. and global capital market conditions. In valuing our common stock, our board of directors relied in part upon independent third-party valuation reports to determine the equity value of our business using various valuation methods including combinations of income and market approaches with input from management. In August 2020, we issued Convertible Notes that contain several conversion options. The Monte Carlo simulation was the most appropriate valuation method given the variability of distributions to different share classes depending on the conversion terms upon various potential exit events of the Company and considering that the likelihood of such exit events and potential exit values were speculative as of the valuation date. Application of these approaches involves the use of estimates, judgment, and assumptions that are highly complex and subjective, such as those regarding our expected future revenue, expenses, and future cash flows, discount rates, market multiples, the selection of comparable companies, and the probability of possible future events. Changes in any or all of these estimates and assumptions or the relationships between those assumptions impact our valuations as of each valuation date and may have a material impact on the valuation of our common stock. Embedded Derivatives and Warrant Liability In August 2020, we issued Convertible Notes that contain embedded features subject to derivative accounting. These embedded features are composed of conversion options that have the economic characteristics of a contingent early redemption feature settled in a variable number of shares of our stock. These conversion options are bifurcated and accounted for as a derivative liability separately from the host debt instrument. We measure these instruments at their estimated fair value and recognize changes in their estimated fair value in our statement of operations during the period when they occur. We value these embedded derivatives as the difference between the estimated value of the Convertible Notes with and without such conversion features utilizing Monte Carlo simulation pricing model. We classify warrants issued in connection with the Convertible Notes as a liability. Such warrants are measured and recognized at fair value and are subject to remeasurement at each balance sheet date, with changes in the estimated fair value recorded in our statement of operations during the period when they occur. The fair value of the warrant liability is measured using Monte Carlo Simulation pricing model. The key inputs to the valuation model include common stock fair value, equity volatility, expected term until a liquidity event, expected term until exercise, and risk-free interest rate. 86 In connection with ArcLight’s initial public offering in September 2020, 21,425,000 warrants to purchase ArcLight ordinary shares were issued, including 13,875,000 public warrants and 7,550,000 private placement warrants. These warrants were classified as liabilities as they did not meet the requirements for equity classification under Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging. These warrants were continually measured at fair value, subject to remeasurement at each balance sheet date, until they were exercised or redeemed in October 2021. Inventory Inventories are recorded at the lower of cost and net realizable value using the first-in, first-out method. Inventory costs consist primarily of the costs of materials, manufacturing support costs, including labor and factory overhead associated with such production, and shipping costs. We assess the valuation of inventory and periodically record a provision, which increases cost of goods sold, to adjust inventory to its estimated net realizable value, including when we determine inventory to be in excess of anticipated demand or obsolete. Once inventory has been written-off or written-down, it creates a new cost basis for the inventory that is not subsequently written-up. Income taxes Income taxes are computed using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to affect taxable income. Valuation allowances are established when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized. In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management determined that it is more likely than not that no deferred tax assets will be realized. Therefore, we have provided a full valuation allowance against deferred tax assets. A history of earnings will be required to release this valuation allowance. Recent accounting pronouncements See Note 2 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding recent accounting pronouncements that are of significance, or potential significance to us. Item 7A.