 PART I Item 1. Business Overview Proterra’s mission is to advance electric vehicle technology to deliver the world’s best performing commercial vehicles. Our business is organized into two business units comprised of three business lines, with each business line addressing a critical component of commercial vehicle electrification. • Proterra Powered and Energy is our business unit that provides our technology solutions to commercial vehicle manufacturers and owners of commercial fleets, and is comprised of two business lines. • Proterra Powered designs, develops, manufactures, sells, and integrates proprietary battery systems and electrification solutions into vehicles for global commercial vehicle original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) customers serving the Class 3 to Class 8 vehicle segments, including delivery trucks, school buses, and coach buses, as well as construction and mining equipment, and other applications. • Proterra Energy provides turnkey fleet-scale, high-power charging solutions and software services, ranging from fleet and energy management software-as-a-service, to fleet planning, hardware, infrastructure, installation, utility engagement, and charging optimization. These solutions are designed to optimize energy use and costs, and to provide vehicle-to-grid functionality. • Proterra Transit is our business unit that designs, develops, manufactures, and sells electric transit buses as an OEM for North American public transit agencies, airports, universities, and other commercial transit fleets. Proterra Transit vehicles showcase and validate our electric vehicle technology platform through rigorous daily use by a large group of sophisticated customers focused on meeting the wide-ranging needs of the communities they serve. The first application of Proterra Powered commercial vehicle electrification technology was through Proterra Transit’s heavy-duty electric transit bus, which we designed from the ground up for the North American market. Our industry experience, the performance of our transit buses, and compelling total cost of ownership has helped make us the leader in the U.S. electric transit bus market. With over 800 electric transit buses on the road, our electric transit buses have delivered more than 25 million cumulative service miles spanning a wide spectrum of climates, conditions, altitudes and terrains. From this experience, we have been able to continue to iterate and improve our technology. Our decade of experience supplying battery electric heavy duty transit buses provided us the opportunity to validate our products’ performance, fuel efficiency and maintenance costs with a demanding customer base and helped broaden our appeal as a supplier to OEMs in other commercial vehicle segments and geographies. Proterra Powered has partnered with more than a dozen OEMs spanning from Class 3 to Class 8 trucks, several types of buses, and multiple off-highway categories. Through December 31, 2021, Proterra Powered has delivered battery systems and electrification solutions for more than 400 vehicles to our OEM partner customers. In addition, Proterra Energy has established our Company as a leading commercial vehicle charging solution provider by helping fleet operators fulfill the high-power charging needs of commercial electric vehicles and optimize their energy usage, while meeting our customers’ space constraints and continuous service requirements. As of December 31, 2021, we had installed more than 60 MW of charging infrastructure across North America. We delivered 208 new transit buses in 2021, 170 in 2020, and 177 in 2019. We also delivered 9 pre-owned buses in 2021. We delivered battery systems for 273 vehicles in 2021, 107 vehicles in 2020, and 20 vehicles in 2019. 9 For the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, our total revenue was $242.9 million, $196.9 million, and $181.3 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2021, in aggregate, we have generated revenue of $621.1 million for the past three years. We generated a gross profit of $2.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 and a gross profit of $7.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, and a gross loss of $1.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. We have also invested significant resources in research and development, operations, and sales and marketing to grow our business and, as a result, generated losses from operations of $127.6 million, $96.0 million, and $99.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Business Combination On June 14, 2021, we consummated the transactions contemplated by Merger Agreement, by and among ArcLight (and, after the Domestication, Proterra), Phoenix Merger Sub, and Legacy Proterra. As contemplated by the Merger Agreement, on June 11, 2021, ArcLight filed a notice of deregistration with the Cayman Islands Registrar of Companies, together with the necessary accompanying documents, and filed a certificate of incorporation and a certificate of corporate domestication with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware, under which ArcLight was domesticated and continues as a Delaware corporation. Further, on June 14, 2021, as contemplated by the Merger Agreement, Proterra consummated the Merger, whereby Phoenix Merger Sub merged with and into Legacy Proterra, the separate corporate existence of Phoenix Merger Sub ceasing and Legacy Proterra being the surviving corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Proterra. Legacy Proterra was incorporated in Delaware on February 2, 2010, and upon the Merger on June 14, 2021 changed its name to “Proterra Operating Company, Inc.” and continues as a Delaware Corporation. In addition, pursuant to subscription agreements entered into in connection with the Merger Agreement, the PIPE Investors purchased an aggregate of 41,500,000 shares of Proterra common stock concurrently with the Closing of the Business Combination for an aggregate purchase price of $415,000,000. We received $649.3 million in net cash proceeds upon Closing to fund our growth initiatives, including research and development and our next-generation battery program. On September 27, 2021, we announced that we would redeem all of the outstanding public warrants and private placement warrants that were issued in connection with ArcLight’s initial public offering. On October 27, 2021, our public warrants ceased trading on the Nasdaq, and we subsequently redeemed the outstanding warrants that remained unexercised as of 5:00 p.m. New York City time on October 29, 2021 at a redemption price of $0.10 per warrant. Our products We design, manufacture, and sell proprietary battery systems, electrification and charging solutions and fleet and energy management systems purpose-built for commercial vehicles. Our battery systems, electrification and charging solutions and fleet and energy management systems are also used in electric transit buses that we design, sell, and manufacture. Our Proterra Energy business also provides charging infrastructure solutions to simplify the adoption of electric commercial vehicles and improve fleet operations, as well as software services relating to fleet management, remote diagnostics, smart charging and vehicle-to-grid energy management. Battery system Our highly modular battery systems meet the needs of a variety of commercial vehicle segments and sizes. We sell our battery packs in two different widths and heights depending upon the frame rail length constraints of the vehicle. In addition, each module is available in two different lengths, and three different voltages (25V, 35V and 50V). Modules can be strung in series up to 1,200V within a pack. Packs can be combined up to 16 strings in parallel. We design, validate, test, and manufacture high-voltage battery packs that are used in our electric transit buses, as well as other commercial vehicle applications. We have designed our batteries based on the core principles of modularity, durability, safety, and scalability. 10 Our batteries have been designed around standardized form factor cylindrical cells that are produced by numerous global cell manufacturers. Our battery design is flexible to chemistry and manufacturer, allowing us to utilize the best cells commercially available in terms of energy density, cost, cycle life performance, charge rate acceptance, and safety. We have worked with LG Chem Ltd., now LG Energy Solution, to develop cells that are optimized for our applications. Each module contains a proprietary battery monitoring board, and each pack contains a proprietary battery management system, which together monitor the performance of the battery pack and communicate with the vehicle. We engineered the battery pack with safety and durability as core principles. The battery enclosure is a rugged structure, built using aluminum extrusions and castings, and may include an aluminum base plate to protect the cells. The module and enclosure architecture are designed to be safe in extreme mechanical and environmental abuse scenarios. We internally test our battery cells, modules, and packs to ensure they meet our durability, cycle life performance, and safety and warranty requirements. Inherent to the mechanical and electrical architecture of our battery modules and battery packs is the flexibility to rapidly reconfigure components for use in various commercial vehicle applications. Battery modules and packs can be connected electrically in a series of strings to increase system voltage up to 1,200V. Additionally, multiple strings can be connected in parallel to enable megawatt-hour-scale battery systems. While our battery system is optimized for commercial vehicle applications, we have also created an architecture with second-life use in mind. For instance, our battery packs are designed to be stackable in order to be deployed with minimal modification in stationary energy storage applications. We operate a battery research and development laboratory at our Burlingame headquarters, co-located with battery engineering, advanced manufacturing engineering, and manufacturing operations. Capabilities of this lab include mechanical and environmental durability testing, highly accelerated life testing, electrical safety testing, cell lifecycle and safety testing, mechanical abuse testing, and prototype assembly for new applications. Prototype and production variants of our battery products are tested and certified to industry standards, including Society of Automotive Engineers (“SAE”) J2929, as well as proprietary internal test requirements. Electric drivetrains A key driver of vehicle performance, and biggest consumer of battery energy, is the drivetrain, which includes the traction motor, inverter, controller, and transmission. We have partnered with leading engineering and manufacturing companies to design and develop both a single- and a dual-motor drivetrain: the 295 horsepower ProDrive and the 510 horsepower DuoPower drivetrains. Both systems utilize three-phase, permanent-magnet, liquid-cooled motors. In contrast to internal combustion engines, electric motors provide high and immediate torque that remains steady whether the motor is starting from a standing stop or already operating at high speed, helping provide our buses with superior performance to a comparably sized commercial diesel vehicle. Our drivetrains also have significant advantages over traditional powertrains in weight and serviceability. Our motor weighs 90 kilograms, compared to over 800 kilograms for a typical diesel engine, and may be removed in four hours, compared to 12 hours for a standard diesel engine. The traction motor inverter is a liquid-cooled power electronics unit that converts high-voltage direct-current into the three-phase power required for the desired torque and speed of the traction motor. This unit operates bi-directionally, acting as the control to turn the motor into a regenerative brake, recovering energy back into the battery packs. The drivetrain controller translates the accelerator and brake pedal commands into torque and speed commands for the inverter. The drivetrain also has a number of safety functions, including anti-lock brake system activation, hill-hold features, and programmable responsiveness for both acceleration and regeneration. We believe that multispeed gearboxes, paired with small high-performance motors, provide our customers compelling value, performance, and vehicle range. High-voltage systems, controls, and telemetry gateways To integrate the battery, drivetrain, charging, and other vehicle hardware, we developed a controls architecture for optimal system function, reliability, and safety. The core components of the control system are the battery management system, the charge controller that manages the interface between the battery and the charging system during charging, the telematics unit that provides wireless connectivity and supports vehicle 11 monitoring and analytics, the drivetrain controller that interfaces with the motor and inverter, the vehicle controller that manages all base vehicle systems, including the high voltage and thermal systems, and the body controller that manages customer configurable functions such as HVAC, doors, lighting, and vehicle ride height. Developed expressly for heavy duty and high-occupancy vehicle applications, our battery management system (“BMS”) and battery monitoring board (“BMB”) hardware, software, and patented control algorithms are designed to ensure safe and reliable operation in all commercial vehicle applications. The BMS is deployed on an automotive grade controller within the battery pack responsible for actively and safely managing a lithium ion battery pack. It controls the battery pack electrical contactors, monitors all relevant parameters, determines real-time state and limits designed to ensure safe and reliable operation, and communicates with the vehicle. Moreover, the BMS performs electrical safety functions such as isolation monitoring and high voltage interlock control. These functions are critical to performance and safety. Additional functions performed include measuring cell operating parameters such as voltage, temperature, and relative humidity and performing dissipative cell balancing. These units and other devices, such as dashboard displays and other onboard electronics, are interconnected with industry standard Controller Area Network (“CAN Bus”) vehicle networking. Our controls team uses model-based control architecture to create software for each of these units and ensure proper validation through automated software testing. At the system level, we use these models in conjunction with industry-standard Hardware-In the-Loop and Software-In the-Loop test set-ups, which allow for full vehicle simulation and development. ZX5 electric transit bus The Proterra electric transit bus is our flagship product and the only finished vehicle we manufacture ourselves as an OEM. In 2014, we launched our first 40-foot electric low-floor transit bus seating up to 40 people, followed one year later by a 35-foot version seating up to 29 people. We focus on 35-foot and 40-foot buses because these buses represent more than three-quarters of the market according to the Federal Transit Authority’s National Transit Database. Currently offered with battery sizes including 225 kilowatt-hours “(kWh”), 450 kWh, and 675 kWh, our buses can provide a range of up to 329 miles on a single charge. With the batteries mounted in ballistic-grade enclosures below the floor of the vehicle between the axles, the bus has been designed to optimize for mass distribution and safety. Enabled by our battery and electric drive train technology and a body made of light-weight composite materials, our purpose-built electric transit bus also offers compelling acceleration, gradeability, and energy efficiency. Along with zero tailpipe emissions and low maintenance costs, the Proterra Electric Transit Bus offers a compelling value proposition to transit agencies seeking to electrify their fleets. While other manufacturers use a modified steel body and frame that was originally designed for an internal combustion engine, we have partnered with a supplier, TPI Composites, Inc, to architect a lighter weight bus body with advanced materials specifically designed for an electric powertrain. Our composite bus body houses the battery packs below the floor of the vehicle, between the axles, to achieve a low center of gravity and ride comfort and safety. Utilizing carbon fiber and fiberglass, our design approach optimizes mass, stiffness, and durability. Our bus body has been tested on a four-post shaker table to a simulated 750,000 miles and 18 years of useful life, and has also undergone 125,000 effective miles at the Bus Research and Testing Center’s test track in Altoona, Pennsylvania which executes federally mandated transit vehicle durability testing. The ZX5 bus can be charged by either a standard J1772 CCS charge port for in-depot charging, with an estimated charge time of three hours, or an overhead charging dock that can enable rapid energy replenishment for on-route charging or be used for depot charging. Our electric transit bus can also offer significant total cost of ownership savings as compared to the equivalent diesel- and natural gas-powered buses. Our electric transit bus uses approximately 75% less energy per mile than the average legacy diesel bus. In a typical transit operation, the total cost of ownership of our bus is lower than diesel, diesel-hybrid, and compressed natural gas-powered vehicles. Our electric transit bus combines a competitive upfront price with low operations and maintenance costs, which we estimate results in a lower total cost of ownership over the lifetime of the vehicle. 12 Proterra Transit electric buses can also be acquired with a battery lease through our battery leasing program. We offered this program in 2021 through a partnership with Mitsui, whose contract with us ends in March 2022. We are currently offering this program directly. This program enables the customer to pay for the price of the battery over time rather than upfront with the price of the bus. Given the operational savings our buses typically offer in both fuel and maintenance costs, we seek to structure the battery lease payments so they are covered by the operating cost savings. Fleet-scale charging solutions Fleet charging requires a complex balance of multiple stakeholder groups, fleet logistics, battery operational requirements, variable charging times, and electric utility engagement, which together present more challenges than passenger vehicle charging. Successful charging infrastructure implementation is critical to scaling the deployment of commercial electric vehicles. We have designed our charging solutions with a focus on high power, scalability, bi-directional power capability, autonomous charge docking, and charge management. We believe our software algorithms and planning solutions can enable as much as 50% fewer chargers, while optimizing both charging time and energy costs. We currently offer five charger capacities for small fleet solutions: 60 kW, 90 kW, 120 kW, 150 kW, and 180 kW. We also offer a Megawatt class of charger for large fleet solutions. Our charger architecture is designed for commercial fleet applications and allows for the larger charging hardware cabinet to be placed up to 500 feet away from the charger dispensers. This architecture provides commercial fleets with more siting flexibility in depots with limited space. The dispensers can be ground-, wall-, or overhead structure-mounted to meet a customer’s specific requirements. Charging systems include a wireless data connection to our APEX software platform that allows for over-the-air software updates. APEX software platform The Proterra APEX connected vehicle intelligence system is a cloud-based data platform that can provide customers performance information about their fleets, and is designed to provide management of vehicle and charging operations to reduce operating costs. Our hardware and software connectivity platform is designed for compatibility with each vehicle and charging system that we deliver. Each gateway on a bus or charging system automatically connects securely with our cloud-based platform. Applications that run on this platform are accessible to registered users through a role-based, access-controlled web portal. Our data exploration tools offer users current and historical metrics, insights, and reports. Metrics include odometer readings and mileages, battery state-of-charge, energy usage by subsystem, overall energy efficiency, route geolocation, and environmental impact. Charging voltages, power, energy delivered, and session start and stop times are also available. Real-time fault and status alert capabilities provide user notifications through email and text message. The telematics platform also provides charge management capability enabling optimization of power levels and energy costs based on bus arrival and departure schedules. The telematics platform can enable over-the-air updates, and over time we expect to expand its functionality to include further charge management capabilities which is expected to enable customers to minimize demand charges and further reduce energy costs. The APEX platform is designed to be flexible and can also be configured for use with other commercial electric vehicles. Our Technology Our technology platform supports our broad portfolio of products and services across the electrification ecosystem designed to overcome the most significant obstacles to commercial vehicle electrification. The primary features of our electric vehicle technology platform, designed to meet the unique requirements of commercial fleet electrification and differentiate it from the competition, include: • Integrated technology solutions spanning the electrification ecosystem. Our proprietary commercial electric vehicle platform is centered on our Proterra Powered battery and electric drivetrain technology, is complemented by our Proterra Energy fleet-scale, high-power charging infrastructure solutions, and enhanced by our Apex fleet and energy management software-as-a-service platform, which is designed to enable customers to manage their vehicles and charging operations in real-time, reducing 13 the total cost of ownership. Proterra Transit offers real-world validation, testing, and a positive feedback loop for our technology platform. • Modular and flexible battery platform. We offer a modular battery platform available in different form factors, which can be produced on the same manufacturing line, to satisfy the specific needs of our customers and the design constraints of their vehicles. Commercial vehicles are not homogenous and span a wide range of weight classes (from Class 3 over 10,000 pounds to Class 8 over 33,000 pounds), chassis sizes, and frame rail lengths. We believe offering compatibility with as many different vehicle segments as possible without requiring equipment retooling or manufacturing customization is key to achieving higher market penetration. Enabled by the simplicity of design and integrated architecture of our battery modules, our battery packs are available in two widths and heights to accommodate different frame rails, various lengths ranging from 3-feet to 9-feet, and four different voltages which can be strung together in up to 16 parallel strings, with voltages as high as 1,200V. The modularity and manufacturability of our batteries enable us to provide solutions for a wide variety of commercial vehicle sizes and segments, ranging from as low as 35 kWh systems for commercial vans and shuttles up to 1 megawatt-hour (“MWh”) or more for long haul trucks and heavy-duty equipment. • Highly efficient design enabling exceptional energy density and range. Our battery systems are structurally designed to optimize energy density, safety, and cost. We achieve this through a highly efficient design in which the cooling mechanisms, module structure, and pack structure are all the same element, reducing space, weight and cost. The high energy density of our battery systems increases vehicle efficiency, extends range and allows higher occupant or cargo capacity. Our focus on efficiency extends to our drivetrains, which we have designed to optimize torque and efficiency through the use of multi-speed transmissions to meet the demands of the most rigorous and diverse routes for commercial vehicles. As a result, relative to diesel’s low fuel efficiency of less than 5 miles per gallon, our electric vehicles can exceed 20 miles per gallon equivalent, generating significant cost savings. By implementing these efficient designs, maintenance costs can also be materially reduced given fewer moving parts, no need for oil changes, and less frequent brake replacements due to regenerative braking systems. • Designed and certified for safety. Safety is a top priority in our battery design. In addition to offering higher energy density than typical electric passenger vehicle batteries, our commercial-grade batteries offer a high degree of safety and durability due in large part to two core design attributes: cooling and structural rigidity. Through the use of both active cooling and passive propagation resistance in module and pack construction, we have designed our batteries to achieve a lifespan required for commercial vehicle use while operating under daily charge/discharge cycles and to maintain safe and reliable operation. Our battery systems incorporate hundreds of sensors that continuously monitor the active and passive safety systems with multiple layers of redundancy. In addition, we designed our battery packs to be structurally robust, providing protection against strenuous duty cycles and high impact incidents. Our battery systems have been certified by Underwriter Laboratories to be compliant to ISO 26262, which represents today’s state-of-the-art for functional safety for road vehicles. We have also received ECE-R100 certification required to deliver certain product to our European customers. These certifications can provide us a competitive advantage, especially in markets where the certification is a prerequisite to sell electric vehicles and with vehicle OEMs that have their own standards for component safety. Competition Our main sources of competition fall into four categories: • companies, including established vehicle manufacturers and component suppliers, that design and manufacture, or are reported to have plans to design and manufacture, commercial electric vehicle batteries or powertrains; • specialized developers of electric and other zero-emission powertrain technology that are beginning to enter the market; • incumbent transit vehicle integrators that have served our market with legacy diesel, diesel-hybrid and compressed natural gas products for many years; and 14 • Chinese battery manufacturers and transit bus makers that offer an array of vehicle and other products, including electric transit vehicles. The principal competitive factors in our market include: • cost; • product quality and safety; • performance; • customer experience. • integrated business model; • technology innovation; • charging expertise; • manufacturing efficiency; and • service capability. Because of our singular focus on electric vehicle technology for commercial applications, we believe that we compete favorably across these factors. Customers Proterra Powered and Energy As of December 31, 2021, Proterra Powered had delivered electric vehicle battery systems and electrification solutions to customers in commercial and industrial vehicle segments including school buses, coach buses, delivery trucks, and off-highway equipment. As of December 31, 2021, Proterra Energy had installed more than 60 MW of charging infrastructure across North America. Proterra Transit As of December 31, 2021, Proterra Transit customers include municipal transit agencies, corporations, airports, universities, and national parks. In the year ended December 31, 2021, we did not have any individual customer account for 10% or more of total revenue. Distribution, Sales and Marketing Distribution We distribute our products by truck and rail in North America and to overseas customers by boat and if necessary, by air freight. Sales We sell our battery/powertrain systems, electrification and charging solutions, fleet and energy management software and electric transit buses using a business development team as well as a channel sales team for certain markets. These teams are located in North America and focus on the customers and industries that are likely to adopt commercial vehicle electrification. The sales team for Proterra Powered works closely with the engineering team to develop optimal electrification solutions for our customers, depending on their vehicle requirements. Proterra Transit sells buses through a direct sales force, which is comprised of a small team of sales directors who maintain an active dialogue with the largest 400 transit agencies in the United States. Given the well-defined and consolidated nature of our customer base, we are able to cover our market with a lean and focused sales team. We organize our transit sales team by designated geographical regions. Our transit sales 15 organization also includes a demo team, and a proposals and contracts team. Our demo team leads product experiences with customers and has been an integral tool in our sales process. Our proposals and contracts team leads customer engagement in the procurement process, assisting with documentation related to the request for information or request for proposal process, as well as detailed customer-specific product configuration. Proterra Energy has a sales team that directly sells to Proterra Powered and Proterra Transit customers but also responds to requests for proposals from other customers. The Proterra Energy team includes a fleet modeling specialist and sales engineers to help design optimal charging solutions for customers. In addition to the sales teams, we have a government relations team that helps to facilitate our sales effort by building and supporting relationships with public utilities, local governments, the federal government, and transit agencies to educate these entities about our company and facilitate the adoption of electric vehicles. Marketing We utilize strategic marketing to accelerate sales opportunities and build brand awareness. Our current marketing programs primarily target commercial vehicle OEMs and transit agencies, and include: • conferences and industry events that we participate in, sponsor, and exhibit at, such as the American Public Transportation Association Annual Meeting and the Annual Mobility Conference; • press releases and email campaigns; • print and digital advertising campaigns; • graphical wraps for our demo buses; • cooperative marketing efforts with customers and suppliers; and • communicating our differentiated selling points and product features through marketing collateral such as our website, print and digital brochures, presentation slides, webinars, and videos. To date, conferences and industry events have been the primary drivers of our sales leads and have helped us achieve sales with relatively low marketing costs. Engineering We have made significant investments in our development and customer engineering teams. These teams provide components, sub-systems and assemblies for our Proterra Powered, Proterra Energy, and Proterra Transit businesses. Our team members have a broad range of expertise from the commercial vehicle, automotive, aerospace, industrial, and consumer goods industries. We also use external engineering consultants in specialized development areas, including custom circuit board layouts, CAD design, and custom gear box and axle development. They support the full product lifecycle from new product innovation to sustaining engineering, including range improvement, product features, cost reduction, and mass optimization. Our engineering team in the Burlingame includes battery and charging system engineers with significant industry experience. We have launched several battery and charger families using a rigorous multi-phase process in collaboration with our design and internal manufacturing teams, as well as outside vendors. Key areas of technical focus include battery structure, thermal and battery management systems, charging systems, high voltage power distribution, and embedded electronics. The team uses the latest combined environment durability test methods and rigorous safety testing protocols that are designed to assure product reliability and safe operation. Proterra Transit’s vehicle engineering team, based primarily in Greenville includes a number of experienced sub-teams organized by vehicle technology. Those include body, interior/exterior, chassis, pneumatics, mechanical systems, low and high voltage electrical, thermal systems, controls, embedded electronics and drivetrain. 16 Supply chain We have developed close relationships with several key suppliers, particularly for lithium-ion cells, drivetrain components, charging systems, and bus bodies. Our bus bodies are purchased from TPI Composites, Inc. While we obtain some components from multiple sources, in some cases we also purchase significant components used in our products from a single source that we have validated. For our battery cells, we have two qualified suppliers for supply chain resiliency but have only used one of these suppliers, LG Energy Solution, for our current battery system to date. We also operate a cell testing lab where we regularly test new cells from a wide range of global cell manufacturers. We obtain systems, components, raw materials, parts, manufacturing equipment, and other supplies from suppliers that we believe to be reputable and reliable. We have established and follow internal quality control processes to source suppliers, considering engineering validation, quality, cost, delivery, and lead-time. We have a quality management team that is responsible for managing and ensuring that supplied components meet quality standards. Our quality standards are guided by industry standards, including Automotive Industry Action Group, Advanced Product Quality Planning, and Production Part Approval Process procedures, which were developed by the U.S. auto industry. Our electric transit buses use purchased parts that are primarily sourced from American suppliers. We developed our supply chain to comply with the Federal Transit Administration’s (“FTA”) Buy America requirements and the Federal Aviation Administration’s (“FAA”) Buy American requirements, which govern transit bus procurements that are paid for, in part, with federal funds by transit agencies and airports, respectively. For certain Canadian customers, we source select vehicle content from Canadian suppliers in order to comply with Canadian Content requirements. Manufacturing We have battery manufacturing facilities in City of Industry and Burlingame. We manufacture electric transit buses at each of our facilities in City of Industry and Greenville. We strive to instill a manufacturing culture of continuous improvement and leverage best practices in quality control and worker safety across our facilities. We are ISO 14001 certified in our Burlingame, City of Industry, and Greenville facilities. Quality control We have adopted an integrated, end-to-end approach to quality control. We have strategies to identify and correct any defects at each of the design, supplier development, production, and field performance stages for our battery systems, electrification and charging solutions, fleet and energy management software, and our electric transit buses. Our battery lines are required to undergo end-of-line testing for safety, and to assess readiness for vehicle integration. We designed our bus manufacturing line with multiple quality checkpoints, commissioning and functional validation, and road testing. Our customers typically inspect our buses at our facilities prior to shipment. In August of 2020, we passed the ISO audit and became ISO 9001 and 14001 certified. We believe these certifications are a testament to our commitment to quality control. Service and warranty Service We believe customer service is a critical component of promoting adoption of our technology. Our customer service team provides various onsite services for our vehicles at our customers’ locations. Our services typically include training for operators and technicians, onsite delivery support, field support, engineering escalation support, and procurement of spare parts. By performing vehicle services ourselves, we can efficiently identify problems, find solutions, and incorporate improvements into our products. We design our charging systems and buses with the capability to connect to our telematics platform. We use this data to inform product development and assist with service calls. We are constantly evaluating our service offerings to make sure we are properly aligned with our customers’ needs. 17 Warranty We offer warranties for our battery systems, electric transit buses, including their major subsystems, and charging systems. Our battery system warranty is dependent on the vehicle and its usage. We offer 6-year standard warranty and 12-year extended warranty on the battery for materials and workmanship, and an energy capacity warranty that depends on vehicle capacity and expected usage. We typically offer two to five-year warranties on other ancillary components of our powertrain system. Our standard warranty on battery systems reserves the right to replace components with different items of equal or better performance to keep pace with improvements in battery technology development. Our electric transit bus warranty is comprised of a one-year complete bus warranty, a 12-year warranty on our composite bus body, and warranties on other components generally ranging from one to three years. Transit agencies will often request additional coverage as part of the initial capital purchase, in part to minimize their operational costs. We price these extended warranties into our contract bids. Under the fleet defect provisions included in some electric transit bus purchase contracts, we are required to proactively prevent re-occurrences of a defect in the entire fleet of electric transit buses delivered under a contract if the same defect occurs in more than a specified percentage of the fleet within the base warranty period (or sometimes base warranty period plus one year) following delivery of the electric transit bus. We offer a standard two-year warranty on our charging hardware. Warranties for installed third party hardware can extend up to five years. When we have offered extended warranty coverage beyond the suppliers’ warranty, we have priced these extended warranties into our contract bid. Government regulations, funding, and other programs Regulations and programs Battery safety and testing Our battery system complies with all requirements of the SAE J2929 Safety Standard for Electric and Hybrid Vehicle Propulsion Battery Systems Utilizing Lithium-based Rechargeable Cells. In addition, we test our battery systems according to industry standards, including from the SAE, the Economic Commission for Europe (“ECE”), and Underwriters Laboratories (“UL”), as well as our own internal standards, for conditions, including mechanical abuse, thermal cycling, humidity, water immersion, corrosion, and short circuit events. We have also completed applicable transportation tests for our battery packs, demonstrating our compliance with applicable regulations that govern the transport of lithium-ion batteries. Certain materials in our battery packs contain trace amounts of hazardous chemicals, whose use, storage, and disposal are regulated under federal and state law. In addition, we are subject to international regulatory and safety requirements, including the European Union’s directives related to hazardous substances such as Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (“REACH”) and the Restriction of Hazardous Substances (“RoHS”). Most of our battery systems are recyclable, which enables us to develop battery recycling programs with third parties to recycle our battery packs at the end of their useful life. Model bus testing program The FTA mandates that new transit bus models, and subsequent material changes to those models, be physically tested to meet certain performance standards in order to be eligible to receive federal transit funding. Altoona Testing is designed to promote production of better transit vehicles and components, and to ensure that transit customers purchase vehicles that are able to withstand the rigors of transit service. Altoona Testing, typically a required pre-condition for customer acceptances, is available to vendors on a first-come, first-served basis and subject to a waiting list. To date, our 40-foot and 35-foot buses have completed Altoona Testing, but as material changes are made to our bus platform, we must undergo new rounds of testing. 18 The vehicles we sell in Canada are subject to different safety testing regulations and may require redesign or additional testing. Zero Emission Certifications In addition, we are subject to the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) and California Air Resources Board’s (“CARB”) annual certification greenhouse gas emissions requirements related to our transit vehicle and powertrain. The CARB certification is required to participate in California’s Hybrid and Zero-Emission Truck and Bus Voucher Incentive Project (“HVIP”), which offers vouchers to our customers to reduce the purchase price of zero-emission vehicles. Motor Vehicle Safety Standards The United States NHTSA mandates that vehicles, including transit buses, meet all the Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards (“FMVSS”) testing requirements issued by the agency. We self-certify that our electric transit buses comply with applicable FMVSS as of the date of vehicle production. Our electric transit buses must also conform to state and local requirements which vary by jurisdiction. Transit buses sold in Canada must also meet Canada Motor Vehicle Safety Standards (“CMVSS”). Transport Canada monitors FMVSS for applicability to Canada to further align with U.S. regulations, adopting or modifying an FMVSS to address unique usage and environmental conditions in the Canadian market. Government funding opportunities Federal funding programs for zero-emission commercial vehicles On November 15, 2021, President Biden signed the Infrastructure and Investment Jobs Act, also referred to as the “Bipartisan Infrastructure Law”, into law. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law created a number of new funding opportunities for Proterra Powered & Energy customers. The EPA will receive $5 billion over 5 years for the Clean School Bus program, which provides $500 million per year for zero emission school buses, as well an additional $500 million per year for low or zero emission school buses. The EPA also continues to administer the Diesel Emission Reduction Act grant program, which provides funding for transit, school bus, drayage, refuse, and other vehicle types that are low or zero emission. Finally, the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law also provides funding through discretionary and formula programs to various departments at the US Department of Transportation and, can potentially fund opportunities to electrify commercial vehicles at airports, ports, and other locations. Federal formula and competitive funding programs for transit customers Our transit customers are generally transit authorities who depend on federal government funding and programs authorized for public transportation under Title 49, Chapter 53 of the United States Code, and administered by the FTA, as well as other state funding programs. Federal and state funding has accelerated the adoption of electric vehicles in this market. Our principal customers are eligible for government funding, including, in particular, programs authorized under the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act, to accelerate their investments in electric transit fleets. Passed in December 2015, the FAST Act allocated over $305 billion for highway, transit, and vehicle safety programs for a five-year period ending September 30, 2020. The FAST Act was subsequently extended and then reauthorized by the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law through the federal government’s fiscal year 2026. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law provides approximately $567 billion to discretionary and formula programs under the U.S. Department of Transportation’s (“USDOT”) jurisdiction, including approximately $39 billion of funding to transit, which represents an increase of 43% compared to amounts authorized under the FAST Act. Among other programs, the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law authorized over $70 million per year for the Low or No Emission Program, as well as a supplemental appropriation of $5.25 billion over five years for the Low or No Emission Program. Although 25% of this funding is reserved for low-emission buses only, it will provide over $850 million per year for funding zero-emission transit buses and infrastructure, a 14-fold increase over the authorized amounts in the FAST Act. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law also funds the Buses and Bus Facilities competitive program at $376 million in 2022 to $412 million in 2026. 19 State funding programs Certain states offer vouchers and other incentives for clean energy vehicles. California offers HVIP, which provides a point-of-sale discount to organizations that purchase fleets of hybrid and electric trucks and buses. The HVIP vouchers are targeted to offset about 80% of the incremental cost of hybrid and electric trucks and buses. In 2021, the state of California passed a historic zero-emission vehicle and infrastructure funding package for fiscal year 2021-2022, which includes $269.5 million for the HVIP program as well as $130 million set aside for HVIP for school buses, $70 million set aside for transit vehicles, and $75 million for HVIP for drayage trucks. California also offers vouchers for clean off-road equipment (“CORE”), such as cargo handling equipment. California’s FY2021-2022 budget includes $194.95 million for CORE vouchers. California’s zero-emission vehicle and infrastructure funding package for fiscal year 2021-2022 also provided for $873 million in funding for clean heavy-duty vehicles and off-road equipment in fiscal year 2021-2022 (to be implemented by the California Air Resources Board) and $391 million in funding for medium- and heavy-duty ZEV infrastructure in fiscal year 2021-2022 (to be implemented by the California Energy Commission). New York offers the Truck Voucher Incentive Program, which funds low- and zero-emission transit buses and other vehicles. Other states offer similar programs that provide point-of-sale discounts to purchasers of electric vehicles, which help our customers offset the costs of purchasing our transit vehicles. To be eligible vehicles, our electric transit buses must meet certification requirements for electric vehicles from the EPA and, where applicable, California Air Resources Board. Additionally, there are other state programs that help fund electric bus purchases. For example, states are allocating portions of settlement funds from the approximately $15 billion Volkswagen Emissions Settlement Program to investments in zero-emission transit buses, and the state of California has allocated about 10% of its annual Cap-and-Trade funds to California’s Transit and Intercity Rail Capital Program. State emissions credits Public transit agencies and other customers may be eligible for emission reduction credits through state programs. The California Low Carbon Fuel Standard (“LCFS”) enables transit agencies using electricity as a source of fuel to opt into the LCFS program and earn credits that can be monetized. While the value of these credits fluctuates, the credits may help to offset up to half of the fuel costs for our transit customers. Intellectual property The protection of our technology and intellectual property is an important aspect of our business. We rely upon a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights, confidentiality procedures, contractual commitments, and other legal rights to establish and protect our intellectual property. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements and invention or work product assignment agreements with our employees and consultants to control access to, and clarify ownership of, our proprietary information. As of December 31, 2021, we held 67 issued U.S. patents and had 24 U.S. patent applications pending. We also held 27 issued patents and 31 patent applications pending in a foreign jurisdiction. Our U.S. issued patents expire between 2029 and 2040. As of December 31, 2021, we held 10 registered trademarks in the United States, including the Proterra mark, and also held 12 registered trademarks in foreign jurisdictions. We continually review our development efforts to assess the existence and patentability of new intellectual property. We intend to continue to file additional patent applications with respect to our technology. Employees As of December 31, 2021, we had 870 full-time employees. We believe the positive relationship we have with our employees and our mission led culture differentiate us and are key drivers of business success. Our production employees in City of Industry are represented by the United Steel Paper & Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied & Industrial Service Workers International Union AFL-CIO, CLC and we have a collective bargaining agreement with the union that will continue in effect until May 31, 2024, and then continue 20 from year to year until the following May 31 unless either party serves written notice upon the other of a desire to alter, amend, or terminate the collective bargaining agreement sixty days prior to the expiration date. Availability of Information We file Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements, any amendments to those reports and statements and other information with the SEC. These SEC filings are made available free of charge on our website at www.proterra.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish the materials with the SEC. Information contained on or accessible through our website is not incorporated into this filing unless expressly noted, and the inclusion of our website address in this filing is an inactive textual reference only. Item 1A.