 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (“Form 10-K”). This discussion contains forward-looking statements based upon current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth under Part I, Item 1A. “Risk Factors” or in other parts of this Form 10-K. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any period in the future. Overview Rivian exists to create products and services that help our planet transition to carbon neutral energy and transportation. Rivian designs, develops, and manufactures category-defining EVs and accessories and sells them directly to customers in the consumer and commercial markets. Rivian complements its vehicles with a full suite of proprietary, value-added services that address the entire lifecycle of the vehicle and deepen its customer relationships. In the consumer market, we launched the R1 platform with our first generation of consumer vehicles: the R1T, a two-row, five-passenger pickup truck, and the R1S, a three-row, seven-passenger SUV. We made our first deliveries of the R1T and R1S in September and December 2021, respectively. As of December 31, 2021, we produced 1,009 and delivered 917 R1Ts, and produced and delivered two R1Ss. As of March 8, 2022, we had approximately 83,000 R1 preorders in the United States of America (“United States") and Canada from customers who each paid a cancellable and fully refundable deposit of $1,000. In the commercial market, we launched the RCV platform. Our first vehicle on this platform is our EDV, designed and engineered by Rivian in collaboration with Amazon, our first commercial customer. Amazon has placed an initial order of 100,000 EDVs, subject to modification as described under Part III, Item 13. "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independen ce" in this Form 10-K. Initial Public Offering In November 2021, we completed our underwritten IPO of 175,950,000 shares of Class A common stock at a public offering price of $78.00 per share, which included the exercise in full by the underwriters of their option to purchase from us an additional 22,950,000 shares of Class A common stock. The net proceeds to us from the IPO were $13.5 billion. Factors Affecting Our Performance The growth and future success of our business depends on many factors. While these factors present significant opportunities for our business, they also pose risks and challenges, including those discussed below and in Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors,” that we must successfully address to achieve growth, improve our results of operations, and generate profits. • Ability to Develop and Launch New Offerings. Based on current preorders, our initial launch products - the R1T, R1S, and EDV - appear to resonate with customers and, we believe, have established the Rivian brand in the most attractive consumer and commercial vehicle market segments. However, our ability to grow revenue and expand margins will also depend on our ability to develop and launch new vehicle platforms and programs. Our future financial performance will also depend on our ability to offer services that deliver an intuitive, seamless, and compelling customer experience. • Ability to Attract New Customers. Our growth will depend in large part on our ability to attract new consumer and commercial customers. We have invested heavily in developing our ecosystem and plan to continue to do so. We are in the very early stages of growth in our existing markets, and we expect to substantially raise brand awareness by connecting directly with our community through engaging content, rich digital experiences, and immersive events. We anticipate that these activities will lead to additional preorders and deliveries, and, as a result, increase our base of Rivian customers. An inability to attract new customers would substantially impact our ability to grow revenue or improve our financial results. • Ability to Scale our Ecosystem and Brand Experience. Our go-to-market strategy requires us to scale our ecosystem quickly and effectively, including our technology platform and product development and operational infrastructure, to deliver a seamless customer experience. Our future success will also depend on our ability to further develop and 60 RIVIAN AUTOMOTIVE, INC. leverage our proprietary technology platform. Our ability to enhance our product design, engineering, and manufacturing capabilities and expand our delivery and service operations, Rivian Adventure Network (“RAN”), charging network, and customer service will be critical for supporting growth. We believe our long-term ability to achieve our financial targets will depend on our ability to cost effectively scale these elements, while also delivering a unified customer and brand experience consistent with our adventurous brand commitment. • Ability to Convert our Customers to Subscribers of our Services. Services are a key part of our growth strategy, driven by initial attach rate, member retention, and the subsequent adoption of future service offerings. We intend to offer a variety of services, including financing and insurance, vehicle maintenance and repair, membership, software, charging solutions, and FleetOS solutions that we believe will grow our revenue outside of vehicle sales. As we increase our base of Rivian customers and expand our services portfolio, we expect our customers to expand their usage of our service offerings over the full lifecycle of their vehicle ownership. We believe the services portion of our business will have the benefit of creating a higher-margin, recurring revenue stream for each vehicle, therefore improving our margin profile. Our ability to grow revenue and our long-term financial performance will depend in part on our ability to drive adoption of these offerings. • Ability to Invest in our Production and Capabilities. We believe that customer acquisition and retention is contingent on our ability to produce innovative offerings, including vehicles that deliver the broadest combination of performance, utility, and capability, as well as services that enhance the ownership journey through new features, functions, and a best-in-class customer experience. To this end, we intend to continue to make investments to drive growth as we scale vehicle production and deliveries, expand our offerings, and strengthen our core capabilities. As we invest in our business for long-term growth, leading to increases in operating expenses as well as capital expenditures, we expect to experience additional losses, which could delay our ability to achieve profitability and positive operating cash flow. Furthermore, we anticipate that these future investments will require significant external debt and/or equity financing. • Ability to Develop and Manage a Resilient Supply Chain. Our ability to manufacture vehicles and develop future solutions is dependent on the continued supply of input materials, including metals, battery cells, and semiconductors. Any inability or unwillingness of our suppliers to deliver necessary product components, including semiconductors, at timing, prices, quality, and volumes that are acceptable to us could have a material impact on our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Fluctuations in the cost of materials, supply interruptions, or material shortages could materially impact our business. We have experienced and may continue to experience cost fluctuations or disruptions in supply of input materials that could impact our financial performance. For example, the recent global semiconductor supply shortage is having wide-ranging effects across the automotive industry, and has impacted our operations and financial performance, along with those of many automotive suppliers and manufacturers that incorporate semiconductors into their products. In addition, there have been very sizable increases in recent months in the cost of key metals, including lithium, nickel, aluminum, and cobalt with volatility in pricing expected to persist for the foreseeable future. Furthermore, during the year ended December 31, 2021, we experienced increased logistics cost due to expedited freight associated with supply chain challenges. Given the current supply chain environment, we believe our production ramp and rate in our Normal Factory will be limited by the supply chain in the near-future. We continue to work diligently and collaboratively with suppliers to identify and head off problems or constraints as quickly as possible. • Ability to Grow in New Geographies. We plan to invest in international operations and grow our business outside of our existing operations in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom (“U.K.”), and the European Union (“EU”). We believe we are well-positioned for international expansion in light of a healthy global demand for EVs and for the vehicle segments in which we currently, and expect to, operate. Other factors that we believe will aid our successful international growth include: the highly flexible, modular nature of our platforms, which we anticipate will provide us the ability to introduce new vehicle programs and configurations; our digital-first approach, which we anticipate will allow us to expand quickly and without a significant physical retail footprint; and our product development expertise, which we anticipate will enable us to offer significant customization for diverse international markets and demographics. Our international expansion has significant associated investment requirements, such as capital spending related to infrastructure, including additional manufacturing capacity, delivery, and service operations, charging networks, and personnel. International expansion is also subject to a variety of risks, including local competition, multilingual 61 RIVIAN AUTOMOTIVE, INC. customer support and servicing, delivery logistics, and compliance with foreign laws and regulations related to vehicle sales, data privacy, financing, taxes, labor and employment, and foreign exchange. • Ability to Maintain Our Culture, Attract and Retain Talent, and Scale Our Team. We believe our culture has been a key contributor to our success to date and our mission promotes a sense of greater purpose and fulfillment in our employees. We have invested in building a strong culture and believe it is one of our most important and sustainable sources of competitive advantage. Any failure to preserve our culture could negatively affect our ability to retain and recruit personnel, which is critical to our growth, and to effectively pursue our objectives. If we are unable to retain or hire key personnel, our business and competitive position may be harmed resulting in an adverse impact to our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. • Seasonality. Historically, the automotive industry has experienced higher revenue in the spring and summer months. Additionally, we expect volumes of commercial vehicle sales to be less in the winter months, as customers shift their focus to making last mile deliveries during holidays, rather than incorporating more vehicles into their fleet. We do not expect such seasonality in demand to significantly impact our operations in the near-term as we scale our business due to our backlog of preorders; however, we may experience seasonal variations in our business in the long-term. • Impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Beginning in 2020, public health and governmental authorities have taken extraordinary steps to contain and combat the outbreak and spread of COVID-19, including associated variants, throughout the world. Consistent with these actions, in combination with recommendations by public health officials, since late March 2020 a significant percentage of Rivian personnel have been working remotely; however, in recent months a number of employees have been able to work on-site at our facilities, including our Normal Factory, subject to operating restrictions intended to protect public health and the health and safety of our employees. Additionally, COVID-19, including associated variants, as well as the more recent conflict in the Ukraine have caused disruptions to and delays in our operations, including shortages and delays in the supply of certain parts, as well as higher prices for certain parts, including semiconductors, materials, and equipment necessary to produce our vehicles. In response, we have adapted various internal designs and processes to remedy or mitigate impacts of such disruptions and delays on our production timeline, which has resulted in higher costs. The full extent of the future impact from the pandemic on our operational and financial performance is currently uncertain and will depend on future developments outside of our control, including the duration, extent and intensity of the pandemic, the effectiveness and availability of vaccines and boosters, and actions taken by public health organizations and governmental authorities. We will continue to monitor these conditions and remain flexible, evolving our business and processes as appropriate. • Inflation. The United States economy has experienced various disruptions, including supply chain shortages which have contributed to increased inflation. The cost of input materials ( e.g., sheet metal), components ( e.g., semiconductors), and systems ( e.g., seats) required to produce our vehicles has risen considerably. We expect higher than recent years’ levels of inflation to persist for the foreseeable future. If we are unable to fully offset higher costs through price increases or other measures, especially in the near-term as we continue to work through the backlog of preorders, we could experience an adverse impact to our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Components of Operating Results We expect to incur significant operating costs and expenses that will impact our future profitability, including research and development (“R&D”) expenses as we develop and introduce new vehicles and services and improve our existing vehicles and services, capital expenditures in the expansion of our manufacturing footprint and operations, additional operating costs and expenses for production ramp-up, raw material procurement costs, general and administrative expenses as we scale our operations, and selling and distribution expenses as we market our vehicles and services. In addition, we may incur significant costs in connection with our services once we deliver our vehicles, including servicing and warranty costs. Our ability to become profitable in the future will depend on our ability not only to successfully market and sell our vehicles and services at prices we establish, but also to appropriately control costs and realize economies of scale. 62 RIVIAN AUTOMOTIVE, INC. Revenues and Cost of revenues We are a development stage company and have only recently started to generate notable revenues. Vehicle production and deliveries began in September 2021. As we expand production and commercialization of vehicles, we expect the majority of our revenue will be initially derived from sales of consumer and commercial vehicles, accessories, and regulatory credits. We expect the majority of our costs of revenues will initially be driven by labor, overhead, logistics, and direct material expenses related to the production of consumer and commercial vehicles and accessories, as well as costs incurred in excess of the net realizable value (“NRV”) of certain inventory. Additionally, we started recognizing recurring non-cash stock compensation charges in the quarter ended December 31, 2021 in connection with the performance-based vesting condition of RSUs and stock options being met upon the IPO. Operating expenses Research and development Our R&D cost consists primarily of expenses incurred for the development of our vehicles and related technologies. These expenses include: • personnel expenses for teams in engineering and research; • prototyping expenses; • consulting and contractor expenses; • amortized equipment expenses; and • allocation of indirect expenses. Additionally, we started recognizing recurring non-cash stock compensation charges in the quarter ended December 31, 2021 in connection with the performance-based vesting condition of RSUs and stock options being met upon the IPO. We expense R&D costs as incurred. We expect our R&D expenses to increase in the foreseeable future as we continue to develop vehicle platforms, next generation EVs and components, and other technologies. Selling, general, and administrative Selling, general, and administrative (“SG&A”) expenses consist primarily of personnel costs for employees in our sales, service, facilities, corporate, executive, finance, and other administrative functions, as well as outside professional services, including legal, accounting, and audit services. Personnel costs consist of salaries and wages, benefits, and employment taxes. Additionally, we started recognizing recurring non-cash stock compensation charges in the quarter ended December 31, 2021 in connection with the performance-based vesting condition of RSUs and stock options being met upon the IPO. SG&A expenses also include allocated facilities expenses such as rent and depreciation, and other general corporate expenses such as travel and recruiting expenses. We expect our SG&A expenses to increase for the foreseeable future as we continue to scale as a company, build out our service and sales operations, and produce our planned future vehicle platforms and programs. We also expect to incur additional expenses as a result of operating as a public company, including expenses related to compliance with rules and regulations of the SEC and of applicable national securities exchanges, as well as legal, audit, investor relations, insurance, and other administrative and professional services expenses. Other expenses Other expenses consist of charitable contributions to Forever by Rivian. 63 RIVIAN AUTOMOTIVE, INC. Other (expense) income, net Other (expense) income, net consists primarily of non-operating expenses and income such as interest expense, amortization of debt discounts and issuance costs, and other gains or losses associated with our debt financing arrangements, as well as interest income earned on investments. Provision for income taxes Our provision for income taxes consists primarily of income taxes related to foreign jurisdictions in which we do business. We maintain a full valuation allowance on our United States federal and state deferred tax assets as we have concluded that it is more likely than not that the deferred assets will not be utilized. Results of Operations The following tables set forth our consolidated results of operations for the periods presented (in millions). The year-to-year comparisons of our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected in the future. Comparison of the years ended December 31, 2019, 2020 and 2021 Revenues Revenues increased by approximately $55 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. This increase was achieved primarily through our first customer deliveries of 917 R1Ts. 64 RIVIAN AUTOMOTIVE, INC. Cost of revenues and Gross profit Cost of revenues increased by $520 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to the year ended December 31, 2020, as a result of the manufacture and sale of our first production vehicles. Negative gross profit increased by $465 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. As we produce vehicles at low volumes on production lines designed for higher volume, we have and will continue to experience negative gross profit related to significant labor and overhead costs. The pressure on gross profit from limited volumes will continue in the near term, but we expect it will improve on a per-vehicle basis as production volumes ramp up faster than future labor and overhead cost increases. Additionally, we recorded a lower of cost or net realizable value (“LCNRV”) adjustment of $95 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 to write-down the value of certain inventory to the amount we anticipate receiving upon vehicle sale (after considering future costs necessary to ready the inventory for sale). We expect LCNRV charges to negatively impact upcoming periods in the near term. We also experienced increased logistics costs due to expedited freight associated with supply chain challenges, which we expect to continue in the near future. Research and development 2020 compared to 2019 R&D expenses increased by $465 million, or 154%, for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. This increase was primarily due to a $212 million increase in engineering, design, and development costs and a $182 million increase in payroll and subcontracting expenses. The primary drivers for these higher expenses were our increased efforts related to our R1 and EDV programs and other advanced product development activities. During this period, we started our pre-production vehicle builds, which required significant investment to manufacture and test vehicles, and had higher personnel costs to support these activities. 2021 compared to 2020 R&D expenses increased by $1,084 million, or 142%, for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. This increase was primarily due to a $344 million increase in the cost of prototype materials and supplier R&D, a $293 million increase in payroll and related expenses, and $277 million of stock-based compensation expense. The primary drivers for these higher expenses were our increased efforts related to our R1 and EDV programs, important investments related to other advanced product development activities, and higher headcount and personnel costs. We plan to continue to invest in future vehicle platforms and vertical integration, as well as current technologies, including in-vehicle and Rivian Cloud. 65 RIVIAN AUTOMOTIVE, INC. Selling, general, and administrative 2020 compared to 2019 SG&A expenses increased by $147 million, or 136%, for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. This increase was primarily due to an $89 million increase in payroll and related expenses and a $25 million increase in facilities and other occupancy costs, driven by higher headcount and office location expansions. 2021 compared to 2020 SG&A expenses increased by $987 million, or 387%, for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. This increase was primarily due to a $258 million increase in payroll and related expenses, $277 million of stock-based compensation expense (which was not recognized in prior periods, given our IPO occurred during the year ended December 31, 2021), a $103 million increase in facilities and other occupancy costs, a $66 million increase in subcontractor and other professional fees, and an increase in other miscellaneous operating expenses, including fees for contract cancellations, certain logistics costs, promotional costs, expenses for information technology, and travel, meal, and entertainment costs. The primary drivers for these higher expenses were our efforts to further scale our sales and service operations, office locations, customer-facing facilities, and other corporate functions to support our future business growth, including higher headcount and increased personnel costs. We also plan to make corresponding investments in our facilities, service network, commercial operations, and technology for our future operations. Other expenses 2021 compared to 2020 Other expenses increased by $663 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to the year ended December 31, 2020, as a result of the Company’s donation of approximately 8 million shares of Class A common stock and $20 million in cash to Forever by Rivian, Inc., a 501(c)(4) social welfare organization (“Forever by Rivian”). With this sizable initial funding, we have no short-term plans to provide additional direct funding to Forever by Rivian in the future. Other (expense) income, net 66 RIVIAN AUTOMOTIVE, INC. 2020 compared to 2019 Interest income decreased by $8 million, or 44%, for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. This decrease was primarily due to lower market rates, partially offset by a higher average balance of cash and cash equivalents. Interest expense decreased by $26 million, or 76%, for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. This decrease was primarily due to the amortization of debt discount upon the conversion of convertible debt during 2019, as well as lower market interest rates in 2020 associated with the Term Facility (as defined in Note 6 “Debt” to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K). 2021 compared to 2020 Interest income decreased by $7 million, or 70%, for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. This decrease was primarily due to lower market rates, partially offset by a higher average balance of cash and cash equivalents. Interest expense increased by $21 million, or 263% for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to year ended December 31, 2020. This increase was primarily due to higher average debt balances and interest rates with the issuance of the 2026 Notes. See Note 6 “Debt” to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for more information on the 2026 Notes. We expect interest expense to increase in the near term, according to changes in the interest rate environment. Loss on convertible notes, net for the year ended December 31, 2021 resulted from the conversion of the 2021 Convertible Notes. See Note 6 “Debt” to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for more information on the 2021 Convertible Notes. Provision for income taxes As of December 31, 2019, 2020 and 2021, the majority of our deferred tax assets were comprised of net operating losses generated primarily in the United States and tax credit carryforwards, and for all periods, these assets were fully offset by a valuation allowance. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our operations have been financed primarily through net proceeds from the sale of securities, including in our IPO, and from borrowings. As of December 31, 2020 and 2021, we had cash and cash equivalents of $3 billion and $18 billion, respectively, and availability under the ABL Facility was $306 million at December 31, 2021. In January 2021, we issued 71,913,170 shares of Series F contingently redeemable convertible preferred stock to a group of investors at a price of $36.85 per share for total gross proceeds of $2.7 billion. Upon the closing of our IPO, all outstanding shares of contingently redeemable convertible preferred stock converted into an aggregate 575,864,510 shares of Class A common stock. In February 2021, we paid all outstanding amounts under the variable rate Term Facility Agreement (“Term Facility”). In May 2021,we entered into the ABL Facility, which will mature on May 20, 2025. As of December 31, 2021, we had $306 million of unused committed amounts under the ABL Facility. The ABL Facility contains certain affirmative and negative covenants and conditions to borrowing or taking other actions that restrict certain of our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things, incur debt, grant liens, make investments, enter into certain transactions with affiliates, pay dividends, and prepay junior or unsecured indebtedness, subject to certain exceptions. As of December 31, 2021, we were in compliance with the covenants and conditions of the ABL Facility. See Note 6 “Debt” to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for more information regarding the ABL Facility. In July 2021, we issued the unsecured senior convertible promissory notes due July 2026 (“2021 Convertible Notes”) at $2.5 billion aggregate principal amount. The 2021 Convertible Notes would have matured on July 23, 2026 and accrued interest quarterly at a rate of (i) zero percent (0%) from the date of issuance to, and including, June 30, 2022 and (ii) five percent (5%) 67 RIVIAN AUTOMOTIVE, INC. after June 30, 2022. Upon the closing of our IPO, the 2021 Convertible Notes automatically converted into shares of our Class A common stock at a conversion price equal to $66.30 per share. In October 2021,we issued $1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of 2026 Notes. The 2026 Notes have a maturity of five years from the date of their original issuance. The 2026 Notes require certain of our subsidiaries to comply with a number of customary covenants (including restrictions on incurrence of indebtedness, liens, the making of restricted payments, and dispositions), in each case substantially similar to the corresponding covenants under the ABL Facility as described above. In addition, the 2026 Notes contain a minimum liquidity covenant (but no other financial covenants) requiring us to maintain no less than $1.0 billion of liquidity, which will fall away upon meeting a fixed charge coverage ratio of greater than 1.0 for two consecutive quarters. See Note 6 “Debt” to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for more information regarding the 2026 Notes. In November 2021, we completed our underwritten IPO of 175,950,000 shares of Class A common stock at a public offering price of $78.00 per share, which included the exercise in full by the underwriters of their option to purchase from us an additional 22,950,000 shares of Class A common stock. The net proceeds to us from the IPO were $13.5 billion. We have generated significant losses from operations, as reflected in our accumulated deficit of $1.7 billion and $6.4 billion as of December 31, 2020 and 2021, respectively. Additionally, we have generated significant negative cash flows from operations and investing activities as we continue to support the growth of our business. We anticipate continuing to make significant investments in capital over the next several years to focus on ramping up production as we strategically expand infrastructure, including additional manufacturing capacity at the Normal Factory and initiating work on our second domestic manufacturing facility in Georgia. We also anticipate continuing to make significant investments in future growth objectives, including vehicle and other technology and software, tooling for current vehicle platforms, future vehicle manufacturing lines, battery technology and supply, our service network, charging infrastructure, and digital offerings. As of December 31, 2020 and 2021, our non-cancellable commitments as disclosed in Note 5 "Leases", Note 6 “Debt”, and Note 12 "Commitments and Contingencies" to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K, do not include any commitments related to these ongoing investments as we do not have any related material commitments that we cannot cancel without a significant penalty. In addition to our capital expenditures, we expect our operating expenses to increase as we ramp vehicle production and continue to invest in R&D activities and roll out our commercial infrastructure in support of our growing customer base. We believe our existing balance of cash and cash equivalents, including the net proceeds from our IPO and in addition to amounts available for borrowing under the ABL Facility, will be sufficient to meet our operating expenses, working capital, and capital expenditure needs for at least the next 12 months. Our future operating losses and capital requirements may vary materially from those currently planned and will depend on many factors, including our rate of revenue growth, the timing and extent of spending on R&D efforts and other growth initiatives, the expansion of manufacturing activities, the timing of new products and services, market acceptance of our offerings, and overall economic conditions. Furthermore, we anticipate that future investments will require significant debt and/or equity financing. The sale of additional equity would result in dilution to our stockholders. The incurrence of additional debt would result in debt service obligations, and the instruments governing such debt could provide for operational and financial covenants that restrict our operations. There can be no assurances that we will be able to raise additional capital on favorable terms or at all. The inability to raise capital would adversely affect our ability to achieve our business objectives. Cash Flows 68 RIVIAN AUTOMOTIVE, INC. Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities increased by $0.5 billion during the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. This increase was primarily driven by higher cash outlays to support overall growth of the business, especially in R&D related to the progress of our vehicle programs (such as prototype expenses) and various SG&A activities related to scaling our operations (such as payroll). Net cash used in operating activities increased by $1.8 billion during the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. This increase was primarily driven by higher cash outlays to support overall growth of the business, especially in R&D related to the progress of our vehicle programs (such as prototype expenses), various SG&A activities related to scaling our corporate and commercial operations (such as payroll), and the manufacturing and sale of our first products from our Normal Factory. The overall growth of the business also resulted in increases in net operating assets (especially inventory for the start of production) and offsetting increases in operating liabilities (including payables and accrued expenses). Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities increased by $0.7 billion during the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the year ended December 31, 2019, primarily driven by increased capital expenditures related to the build-out of our Normal Factory. Net cash used in investing activities increased by $0.9 billion during the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily driven by the build-out of our Normal Factory, and to a lesser extent by investments in corporate workplaces, lab facilities, service operations, and experience spaces. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities during the year ended December 31, 2019 of $2.8 billion was primarily driven by proceeds from the issuance of shares of Series A, B, C and D contingently redeemable convertible preferred stock. Net cash provided by financing activities during the year ended December 31, 2020 of $2.5 billion was primarily driven by proceeds from the issuance of shares of Series E contingently redeemable convertible preferred stock. Net cash provided by financing activities during the year ended December 31, 2021 of $19.8 billion was primarily driven by $13.5 billion in net proceeds from our IPO, $2.7 billion in proceeds from the issuance of shares of Series F contingently redeemable convertible preferred stock, $2.5 billion in proceeds from the issuance of the 2021 Convertible Notes, and $1.2 billion in net proceeds from the issuance of the 2026 Notes. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of our financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“U.S. GAAP”) and the discussion and analysis of our financial condition and operating results require us to make judgments, assumptions, and estimates that affect the amounts reported. We base these estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions we believe are appropriate and reasonable under the circumstances and apply judgement to possible outcomes as the basis for amounts reported. Because of the inherent uncertainties involved in making such estimates, actual results may differ, and such differences may be material. We consider the following policies and estimates critical because they are important to the portrayal of our financial condition and operating results, and they require us to make judgments and estimates about inherently uncertain matters. For further information on all of our significant accounting policies, see Note 2 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Inventory Valuation We review our inventory to ensure that its carrying value does not exceed its NRV, with NRV based on the estimated selling price of inventory in the ordinary course of business, less estimated costs of completion, disposal and transportation. When our expectations indicate that the carrying value of inventory may exceed its NRV, we perform an exercise to calculate the approximate amount by which carrying value is greater than NRV and record additional cost of revenue for the difference. 69 RIVIAN AUTOMOTIVE, INC. Once a write-off occurs, a new, lower cost basis is established. We also regularly monitor inventory quantities on hand and on order and record write-downs for excess and obsolete inventories based on our estimates of the future demand for our products and market and economic conditions and for damaged or otherwise impaired goods. Should our estimates used in these calculations change in the future, such as estimated selling prices or production costs, additional write-downs may occur. A hypothetical 10% change in estimated selling prices or production costs would have resulted in approximately a $20 million change in the inventory write-down for the year ended December 31, 2021. Stock-Based Compensation We measure our stock-based awards at their grant date at the fair value of the award and expense that value over the vesting period, net of actual forfeitures, when we consider any performance targets probable of being achieved. Generally, the Company’s outstanding stock-based awards vest in quarterly or annual installments based on a requisite service period of one to four years of continuous service and may contain performance or market conditions related to production, stock price, and other targets. We have two types of stock-based awards granted and outstanding under the 2015 Stock Plan and 2021 Stock Plan: stock options and restricted stock units (“RSUs”). We calculate the fair value of most stock options using a Black-Scholes option pricing model. The Black-Scholes option pricing model requires certain subjective inputs and assumptions, including the expected stock price volatility, term of the award, risk-free interest rates, and dividend yield of our Class A common stock. Expected volatility is based on historical volatility rates of peer companies. The dividend yield is estimated based on the rate at which the Company expects to provide dividends. The risk-free rate is based on the United States Treasury yield curve for zero-coupon Treasury notes with maturities approximating the respective expected term of the stock option. The expected term represents the average time the Company’s stock options are expected to be outstanding and requires us to develop an expectation of when the award will vest. Additionally, we have granted stock option awards with service-based vesting conditions and market-based conditions that are incorporated into the estimation of the grant-date fair value of the awards. We determined the fair value of these awards by utilizing a Monte Carlo simulation model that incorporates the possibility that the market-based conditions may not be satisfied. The Monte Carlo simulation also requires certain subjective inputs and assumptions, including expected stock price volatility, term, and risk-free interest rates, which are estimated as described above, except for the expected term. We estimate the expected term of the award based on various stock price and exercise scenarios. The fair value of our common stock is also an input to the estimated fair value of our stock options and is equivalent to the fair value of our RSUs. Prior to our IPO, the method for estimating the fair value of our common stock required complex and subjective judgments regarding our projected financial results. We utilized an independent appraisal of the fair market value of our common stock, which relied on a market approach with an adjustment for lack of marketability given that the shares underlying the awards were not publicly traded. The market approach incorporated a backsolve method to the most recent equity funding round and a probability-weighted expected return method (“PWERM”) that estimated equity value in an IPO scenario. We arrived at the estimated fair value of our common stock by weighting the backsolve and PWERM valuation methods based on our anticipated probability of an IPO as of each valuation date. In light of initial information received in estimating our IPO price range, we changed the method for estimating the fair value of our common stock. From July 20, 2021 to our IPO, the method used was a straight-line interpolation from the July 20, 2021 fair value estimated by the independent appraisal to the midpoint of the initial IPO price range. As we continue to use judgment in evaluating the assumptions related to our stock-based compensation on a prospective basis, those assumptions may change. As we continue to accumulate additional data related to our common stock, we may revise our methods for estimating volatility, which could materially impact the valuation of our stock-based awards and the stock-based compensation expense that we recognize in future periods. A hypothetical 10% change in our estimated stock price, volatility, and expected term during the year ended December 31, 2021 would have resulted in approximately a 16%, 7%, and 4% change, respectively, in the weighted-average grant date fair value of stock options valued using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. 70 RIVIAN AUTOMOTIVE, INC. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 3 "New Accounting Standards" to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for a description of recently adopted accounting pronouncements and recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet adopted. Emerging Growth Company Status The Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act (the “JOBS Act”) allows emerging growth companies to use the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards. As a result of our election to use the extended transition period, our consolidated financial statements and related notes for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2020 included in this Form 10-K may not be comparable to companies that comply with public company effective dates. We ceased to be an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the JOBS Act, as of October 8, 2021 due to our issuance, in a three-year period, of more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt securities. As a result, we have not applied the extended transition period for new or revised accounting standards beginning with our consolidated financial statements and related notes for the year ended December 31, 2021. Item 7A.