 PART I Item 1. Business Overview Rivian exists to create products and services that help our planet transition to carbon neutral energy and transportation. Rivian designs, develops, and manufactures category-defining electric vehicles (“EVs”) and accessories and sells them directly to customers in the consumer and commercial markets. Rivian complements its vehicles with a full suite of proprietary, value-added services that address the entire lifecycle of the vehicle and deepen its customer relationships. Starting with a clean sheet, we built a vertically integrated ecosystem comprised of our vehicle technology platform, cloud architecture, product development and operations, products, and services. Interconnected by our data and analytics backbone, our ecosystem is designed to deliver fast-paced innovation cycles, structural cost advantages, and exceptional customer experiences. We produced 1,015 and delivered 920 vehicles for the full year 2021. Our Products and Services Consumer Vehicles Engineered for all of life’s adventures, our Electric Adventure Vehicles combine performance, utility, and efficiency. In the consumer market, we launched the R1 platform with our first generation of consumer vehicles: the R1T, a two-row, five-passenger pickup truck, and the R1S, a three-row, seven-passenger sport utility vehicle (“SUV”). We made our first deliveries of the R1T and R1S in 2021. R1T The R1T is a category-defining electric pickup truck, providing a combination of performance, utility, and capability without compromising on sustainability. The R1T is capable of carrying five passengers and large loads with a bed that is 54 inches 3 RIVIAN AUTOMOTIVE, INC. long with the tailgate up (84 inches long with tailgate down) and 50 inches wide. The industry-first Gear Tunnel compartment features lockable storage accessible from either side of the truck. Additionally, the front trunk with a powered hood is one of the largest on the market. R1S The R1S is a large format all-electric SUV, with enough space to comfortably fit up to seven passengers and their gear. Utilizing the same battery, propulsion, and chassis systems as the R1T, R1S customers can expect the same combination of on- and off-road performance. The R1S shares many features of the R1T in a flexible interior form factor that can either suit more occupants or more cargo. The R1S features the same large powered front trunk as the R1T, with enough storage for large suitcases, coolers, and backpacks. The R1S features over 100 cubic feet of space with the seats folded and including the front trunk. With all rear seats folded, the R1S provides a flat floor for loading in gear or lying down. The R1T and R1S are equipped with a proprietary set of advanced technology systems, including vehicle electronics, battery, electric drive, chassis, Driver+, our advanced driver assistance system (“ADAS”), and digital user experience management. These technologies can continuously improve and expand functionality through cloud-enabled over-the-air (“OTA”) updates. The R1T and R1S introduced our brand to the world and will serve as our flagship vehicles as we continue to expand our offerings. To accompany our vehicles, we have developed a comprehensive portfolio of vehicle accessories that will further sharpen our brand’s focus on adventure and active lifestyles. Consumer Services Complementing our consumer vehicles, our current and future suite of value-added services includes digitally enabled financing, telematics-based insurance, proactive vehicle service (maintenance and repair), flexible membership and software services, comprehensive charging solutions, and a data-driven vehicle resale program. These services will generate long-term brand loyalty while also creating a recurring revenue stream for each vehicle across its lifecycle. Comprehensive Charging Solutions We are building charging solutions powered primarily by in-house developed hardware and software that include Rivian Adventure Network Rivian Adventure Network Direct Current fast charging sites (“RAN DCFCs”) and Rivian Waypoints chargers. Our solutions are designed to be cost effective and aim to deliver clean energy to our customers while offering a convenient and seamless charging experience. In addition to deploying our own chargers, we are also partnering with other nationwide Combined Charging Standard (“CCS”) network operators intended to ensure charging is always easily accessible even in the early stages of our infrastructure development. Commercial Vehicles In the commercial market, we launched the Rivian Commercial Vehicle (“RCV”) platform, which underpins the Electric Delivery Van (“EDV”), designed and engineered by Rivian in collaboration with Amazon.com, Inc. and its affiliates (collectively, “Amazon”), our first commercial customer. The EDV is a long-range, electric commercial step-in van designed for large-scale mass production and deployment in a centrally managed fleet. Amazon has ordered an initial volume of 100,000 vehicles globally, subject to modification as described under Part III, Item 13. "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence" in this Form 10-K. Developed to be comfortable and easy to operate for drivers, our commercial vehicles are designed to achieve lower total cost of ownership (“TCO”) for customers while supporting a path to carbon neutral deliveries. Through our work with Amazon, we believe we will be well-positioned to leverage our learnings to build capabilities that will accelerate our progress towards a leadership position in the commercial vehicle market and our deployment of new business models. Currently, Amazon and other delivery companies typically choose from step-in van models from other manufacturers which lack advanced technology and sustainability features. After purchasing stock vehicles, fleet operators like Amazon typically work with aftermarket upfitters to develop a complete solution with shelving and driver monitoring systems. Rivian, in collaboration with Amazon, designed the EDV holistically to support last mile applications, enabling the vans to leave the Rivian factory ready to be put into service. We believe certain aspects of the EDV ’s design and styling will remain exclusive to Amazon. 4 RIVIAN AUTOMOTIVE, INC. The modular upper structure, closures, interior, and skateboard platform enable a significant amount of commonality across any EDV variants to simplify servicing and maintenance across the fleet. The EDV also features integration with our end-to-end fleet management software, built to maximize fleet efficiency and uptime while minimizing costs through predictive maintenance, intelligent charging, power management, and last mile focused telematics features. EDV-700 The EDV-700 is the 700 cubic foot version of the EDV and was the first vehicle delivered to Amazon in 2021. The vehicle’s design is optimized for last mile delivery use cases and includes a rear roll-up door ideal for warehouse bulk loading, which eliminates cargo area side doors that would otherwise consume valuable precious cargo storage. The vehicle’s features also include an integrated automatic bulkhead door designed for safety and security, a tall roof to allow drivers to walk through the vehicle, driver-centric ergonomics creating space for package handling, and a curb-side sliding door designed for ease of package handling and safe vehicle access away from traffic. EDV-500 The EDV-500 is the 500 cubic foot version of the EDV, and we have successfully produced pre-production EDV-500 vehicles, as well as a European version, in our manufacturing facility in Normal, Illinois, (the “Normal Factory”) during 2022. The EDV-500 is a narrower and shorter version of the EDV-700 and an important vehicle for expanding to markets and geographies for which smaller form factors are better suited. We expect to begin production of salable units in 2022. Commercial Services Alongside our commercial vehicles, we offer FleetOS, our proprietary, end-to-end centralized fleet management subscription platform. It encompasses vehicle distribution, service, telematics, software services, charging, connectivity management, Driver+, and lifecycle management. Building upon this foundation, FleetOS will continually add more features over time, including leasing, financing, insurance, driver safety and coaching, smart charging and routing, remote diagnostics, 360° collision reports, and vehicle resale. This cloud-based platform integrates and analyzes vehicle, infrastructure, and operations data, driving us toward industry-leading TCO, safety, and fleet utilization. We have designed FleetOS so it can be customized for a commercial customer’s operational needs. In addition to managing fleets of Rivian vehicles, FleetOS will be able to address mixed fleets comprised of Rivian and non-Rivian commercial vehicles, allowing us to serve a greater number of commercial customers at scale. The Rivian Ecosystem Our direct-to-customer model allows us to manage all sales, deliveries, service operations, and resales in-house, without reliance on a franchise dealership network or other third parties. We employ an integrated, digital-first strategy that is not only convenient and transparent for our customers, but also efficient and scalable to support our continued growth. Our website and mobile app facilitate brand engagement, product discovery, demonstration drives, purchase transactions, vehicle deliveries, vehicle service, account management, and resale. We believe this strategy will allow us to deliver uncompromised experiences well beyond what is available through the standard franchise dealership model. Each element of our ecosystem has been designed from a clean sheet, resulting in end-to-end integration across a range of complementary offerings. Our proprietary technology platform is the foundation of our ecosystem and is comprised of two interconnected elements: vehicle technology and Rivian Cloud. This highly extensible platform will allow us to tailor our offerings to serve both the consumer and commercial markets, powering our products and complementary services. Our product development and operations infrastructure are deeply integrated with our technology platform, making it easier to deliver on our ambitions. The Rivian ecosystem consists of the following components: • Vehicle Technology. A secure, reliable, scalable combination of hardware and software, connecting our proprietary in-vehicle systems, including vehicle electronics, battery, electric drive, chassis, Driver+, and experience management. • Rivian Cloud. Our architecture of interconnected software applications designed to deliver seamless, end-to-end digital commerce solutions and experiences across web, mobile, and app. Rivian Cloud enables FleetOS, remote diagnostics, OTA software updates, and remote vehicle controls, including vehicle access. 5 RIVIAN AUTOMOTIVE, INC. • Product Development and Operations. Our vertically integrated product development and operations functions include design, development, manufacturing, sales, delivery, service, and charging. These functions serve the unique needs of our consumer and commercial customers. • Products and Accessories. Our consumer portfolio is comprised of category-defining vehicles that reimagine the pickup truck and SUV segments. We entered the commercial market with long-range electric step-in vans developed for mass production. The EDV is designed to lower TCO, improve uptime, and facilitate Amazon progressing in its commitment to net zero carbon operations. We expect our products and accessories to provide access to new markets and bring new customers into our ecosystem. • Services. We offer highly tailored and differentiated services that enable seamless and intuitive experiences throughout the entire customer lifecycle. We expect this holistic approach to drive higher customer satisfaction, create strong brand loyalty, and increase operational efficiency while simultaneously allowing us to capture a greater share of the full lifecycle value of every Rivian vehicle produced. • Data and Analytics. Our ecosystem is interconnected by our proprietary data and analytics backbone housed in Rivian Cloud. It is comprised of a centralized data lake and analytics tools, providing valuable insights that can be applied to continuously improve ecosystem-wide performance, functionality, and uptime to drive increased customer satisfaction. Our ecosystem is designed to be highly scalable, flexible, integrated, and interconnected to power an immersive customer journey. This will enable us to maximize our impact by addressing both the consumer and commercial markets simultaneously. We can deploy our offerings at scale using a shared, vertically integrated technology platform, comprised of vehicle technology and Rivian Cloud, with network effects that will build data insights to improve our ecosystem. By utilizing our common technology platform, we generate synergies and scale efficiencies, enabling us to increase our pace of innovation and create offerings that serve the unique needs of our customers. Our direct-to-customer relationships and connected vehicle technologies allow us to gather customer and product insights over the full lifecycle of our vehicles. We will utilize these insights to continuously improve our offerings by adding new capabilities and functionality. Enhanced offerings will attract more customers, deepen existing customer relationships, and expand our data repository and insights, which will further benefit our customers and Rivian. Manufacturing As of December 31, 2021, our Normal Factory is equipped to produce up to 150,000 vehicles annually (distributed between the R1 platform, used to produce the R1T and R1S, and the RCV platform, used to produce EDVs and other commercial vehicles), when the equipment is operated at full rate and on multiple shifts. This annual installed capacity is comprised of approximately 65,000 vehicles for the R1 platform and 85,000 vehicles for the RCV platform. In addition, we recently announced plans to construct a second manufacturing facility near Atlanta, Georgia with an anticipated capacity to produce up to 400,000 vehicles annually. We have made decisions and investments with the objective of maintaining a long-term growth orientation that creates value for all stakeholders, including our employees, customers, partners, communities, shareholders, and the environment. In the near-term, we are targeting the pickup truck, SUV, and commercial van market segments in the United States of America (“United States”), Canada, and Western Europe. We plan to achieve long-term growth by expanding in our existing markets, constructing a broad portfolio of vehicles and digital services with global appeal, entering major global automotive markets, strategically investing in our ecosystem, and expanding into adjacent verticals. In keeping with our long-term mindset, we are designing technology and infrastructure to support and benefit from the future transition to increased autonomy, new ownership models, and renewable energy solutions. Supply Chain We procure materials and components from hundreds of suppliers across the globe that we work closely with to bring our vehicles to market. Our supplier selection process is based on a wide variety of factors, including technical expertise, product quality, cost, and location. With many suppliers, our relationship extends beyond the procurement of raw materials and components as we 6 RIVIAN AUTOMOTIVE, INC. collaborate through the development process. We believe these strategic partnerships have led to pricing and timing advantages in the development of our vehicles. Our products contain thousands of parts that we purchase from hundreds of mostly single- or limited-source suppliers, for which no immediate or readily-available alternative supplier exists. In order to mitigate risks related to a single source of supply, we qualify alternative suppliers and manufacturers when possible, and develop contingency plans for responding to disruptions, such as carrying higher inventory levels where possible. Despite these actions, we have and may still continue to face challenges with various manufacturing-related component shortages, especially as our suppliers scale their operations to match our vehicle ramp rate. We address quality across all phases of the vehicle lifecycle, from design through delivery and service. Our connected vehicles benefit from embedded intelligence, enabling continuous condition monitoring, and automated diagnosis of systems and components. These capabilities detect emergent defects and proactively identify, diagnose, and resolve issues. Our closed loop quality management system gathers feedback from across our operations and vehicles in the field, feeding data directly into our quality controls for real-time improvements. Seasonality Historically, the automotive industry has experienced higher revenue in the spring and summer months. Additionally, we expect volumes of commercial vehicle sales to be less in the winter months, as customers shift their focus to making last mile deliveries during holidays, rather than incorporating more vehicles into their fleet. We do not expect such seasonality in demand to significantly impact our operations in the near-term as we scale our business due to our backlog of preorders; however, we may experience seasonal variations in our business in the long-term. Competition We aspire to drive meaningful change in the world’s transition to sustainable mobility. We believe multiple industry tailwinds such as regulatory support and shifting consumer demand will continue to drive a transition from legacy internal combustion engine (“ICE”) vehicles to EVs. We believe the primary competitive factors in our markets are talent and culture, technological innovation, product performance and quality, customer experience, brand differentiation, product design, pricing and TCO, and manufacturing scale and efficiency. Our competition represents the millions of traditional ICE vehicles and EVs sold each year in the consumer and commercial markets. Our competitive set also represents our total addressable market (“TAM”) which we aim to reach with an expanded product portfolio over the long term in our current and future geographies. As we participate across the spectrum of the consumer and commercial value chain, our competition extends beyond providers that operate in the capacity of an original equipment manufacturer or dealer. Downstream competitors include a patchwork of third parties such as charging providers, vehicle service providers, vehicle remarketers, and traditional fleet management companies. Across the automotive value chain, we believe our vertically integrated business model and technology platform, focus on customer experience, direct-to-customer relationships, and ability to efficiently launch multiple vehicle platforms position us to compete effectively. Regulatory Environmental, Health and Safety Matters Certain of our operations, properties and products are subject to stringent and comprehensive federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing matters including environmental protection, occupational health and safety and the release or discharge of materials into the environment, including air emissions and wastewater discharges. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory and remedial obligations and the issuance of orders enjoining some or all of our operations in affected areas. We are also subject to permitting, registration, and other government approval requirements under environmental, health and safety laws and regulations applicable in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Those requirements obligate us to obtain 7 RIVIAN AUTOMOTIVE, INC. permits, registrations, and other government approvals from one or more governmental agencies to conduct our operations and sell our products. The requirements vary depending on the location where our regulated activities are conducted. The following summarizes existing environmental, health and safety laws and regulations applicable to our operations and products. Regulations in the United States • National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (“NHTSA”) Safety and Self-Certification Obligations. As a manufacturer of EVs, our vehicles are subject to, and must comply with, numerous regulatory requirements established by NHTSA, including all applicable United States Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards (“Safety Standards”). Under the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act, we must certify that our vehicles meet all applicable Safety Standards, as well as the NHTSA bumper standard, or are otherwise exempt from such standards. The categories of Safety Standards that apply to our vehicles include crashworthiness requirements, crash avoidance requirements, and EV requirements. The R1T, R1S, and EDV are fully compliant with all such Safety Standards and other NHTSA requirements without the need for any additional exemptions. We are also required to comply with or demonstrate exemptions from other requirements of federal laws administered by NHTSA, including the Federal Corporate Average Fuel Economy (“CAFE”) standards, Theft Prevention Act requirements, consumer information labeling requirements, Early Warning Reporting requirements regarding warranty claims, field reports, death and injury reports and foreign recalls, and owner’s manual requirements. The R1T, R1S and EDV are fully compliant with or exempted from compliance with the foregoing referenced standards. Rivian also has a system in place to ensure compliance with all reporting obligations to NHTSA. The Automobile Information and Disclosure Act requires manufacturers of motor vehicles to disclose certain information regarding the manufacturer’s suggested retail price, optional equipment, and pricing. In addition, the Automobile Information and Disclosure Act allows inclusion of city and highway fuel economy ratings, as determined by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”), as well as crash test ratings as determined by NHTSA if such tests are conducted. • EPA Certificate of Conformity and California Executive Order. The Clean Air Act requires that we obtain both an EPA-issued Certificate of Conformity and a California Air Resources Board (“CARB”)-issued Executive Order with respect to emissions for our vehicles, and include labeling providing consumer information such as miles per gallon of gas-equivalent ratings and maximum range on a single charge. The R1T, R1S, and EDV have received EPA Certificates of Conformity and California Executive Orders for model year 2022. • Battery Safety and Testing. Our battery pack conforms to mandatory regulations that govern transport of “dangerous goods,” defined to include lithium-ion batteries, which may present a risk in transportation. Governing regulations, issued by the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, are based on the United Nations (“UN”) Recommendations and Model Regulations on the Transport of Dangerous Goods, as well as related UN Manual of Tests and Criteria. The regulations vary by mode of shipping transportation, such as by ocean vessel, rail, truck, or air. We have completed the applicable transportation tests for our prototype and production battery packs, demonstrating our compliance with the UN Manual of Tests and Criteria. We also subject our battery packs to selected tests specified in the Society of Automotive Engineers (“SAE”) J2464 and J2929 standards, as well as tests defined by other standards and regulatory bodies and Rivian’s own internal tests. These tests evaluate battery function and performance as well as resilience to conditions including immersion, humidity, fire, and other potential hazards. We currently use lithium metal oxide cells in our high voltage battery packs. Our battery packs include certain packaging materials that contain trace amounts of hazardous chemicals whose use, storage, and disposal is regulated under federal and state laws. If a customer wishes to dispose of a battery pack from one of our vehicles, we will accept the depleted battery without any additional charge. • Right to Repair. We are also subject to certain laws and regulations, e.g., “Right to Repair,” laws, that would require us to provide third-party access to our network and/or vehicle systems. 8 RIVIAN AUTOMOTIVE, INC. Emission Credit Programs As a manufacturer devoted to the design, development, and production of all-electric, battery-powered vehicles, we will generate credits from regulatory mandates that we can monetize through sale to other manufacturers. For example, in connection with the delivery and placement into service of our zero-emission vehicles in California and a number of other states that have adopted the California standards applicable to light-duty and heavy-duty vehicles, we have earned and will continue to earn tradable light-duty and heavy-duty zero-emission vehicle (“ZEV”) credits that can be monetized. In addition to state level credits, the EPA and NHTSA also mandate minimum greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions and CAFE standards applicable to light- and heavy-duty vehicles. Under the Biden Administration, a final rule was issued in late 2021 that increased the stringency of these standards. These federal regulations require that manufacturers of light- and heavy-duty vehicles meet minimum standards pertaining to GHG emissions and fuel economy based on a vehicle’s footprint or overall dimensions. As the first manufacturer to produce zero-emission vehicles of this larger footprint, we expect to generate substantial GHG and CAFE credits, and to benefit financially from these regulations. Automobile Manufacturer and Dealer Regulation State laws regulate the manufacture, distribution, sale, and service (including delivery) of automobiles, and generally require motor vehicle manufacturers and dealers to be licensed in order to sell vehicles directly to customers in the state. As of December 31, 2021, 22 states and the District of Columbia permit us, as a manufacturer of motor vehicles, to apply for and receive a dealer license to conduct vehicle sales, provided we meet certain requirements. Once licensed in one or more of these 22 states, we may sell our vehicles to any consumer in the United States as a matter of interstate commerce. By contrast, 28 states restrict our ability to obtain a dealer license to sell within those states. To sell vehicles to residents of states where we do not have a license or are unable to be licensed due to our status as a manufacturer, we must conduct the sale out of state over the internet or telephonically. Rivian currently has dealer licenses to sell and service vehicles directly in Arizona, California, and Illinois. We have also applied for dealer licenses in Colorado, Utah, Tennessee, and Virginia which are pending. In addition, we have Service Centers that have opened and are licensed to provide service in Michigan and New York. We have applied for a service license in Maryland, which is pending. Other states where we have operating service locations but are not required to be licensed to operate include: Kansas, Nevada, Texas, Colorado, Minnesota, Utah, Virginia, and Washington. Automobile Manufacturer Regulation in Canada Our vehicles intended for sale in the Canadian market are subject to environmental and safety certifications administered by the appropriate Canadian regulatory authorities, including, but not limited to Transport Canada and Environment Canada. The major certifications and/or approvals that apply to our vehicles include: • Canada Motor Vehicle Safety Standards (“CMVSS”) administered by Transport Canada. The vast majority of CMVSS are identical or substantially similar to Safety Standards in the United States, which Rivian R1T and R1S vehicles met as the second half of 2021. Certain of the differences between CMVSS and Safety Standards that are applicable to our vehicles include telltales, speedometer units of measure, certain labels, immobilizer requirements for anti-theft, and pass-by noise standards. Prior to distributing any of our vehicles in Canada, Rivian will ensure that such vehicles are modified to conform with CMVSS. We expect to complete all CMVSS confirmatory testing and provide an application for certification to Transport Canada by September 2022. • Canadian Emissions Regulations. Environment Canada administers regulations governing emissions, including greenhouse gas emissions. These regulations include the On-Road Vehicle and Engine Emission Regulations (“ORVEER”) and the Passenger Automobile and Light Truck Greenhouse Gas Emission Regulations (“PALTGGER”). In order to demonstrate compliance and obtain certification, the provisions of ORVEER allow a manufacturer to rely upon EPA certificate of conformity issued under the Clean Air Act as Evidence of Conformity. Rivian R1T and R1S vehicles were granted the EPA Certificate of Conformity (“CoC”) in September 2021. As Environment Canada recognizes EPA CoCs, we do not believe there currently is a risk of not obtaining the Canadian certification. • Other Canadian Regulations. Additional regulations applying to our vehicles and accessories include the Innovation, Science, and Economic Development Canada electromagnetic (“EM”) compatibility regulations and standard ICES-002. These regulations are designed to ensure no EM incompatibility exists between Rivian vehicles and 9 RIVIAN AUTOMOTIVE, INC. accessories and other EM emitting equipment. Testing on R1T vehicles was completed in December 2021 and on the R1S in the first quarter of 2022 with passing results for both vehicles and accessories with no issues identified. We are in the process of compiling the Self-Declaration Documents for filing with the relevant Canadian authorities and expect no issues with final approval. With respect to direct sales and service, such regulation is a matter of Canadian provincial law. Unlike the United States, no province of Canada prohibits a manufacturer from applying for and receiving a dealer license or prohibits a manufacturer from establishing a service location and conducting warranty service at that service location. Some provinces, however, do restrict whether sales or service can take place across provincial lines without having a physical presence in those provinces. Federal and State Incentives in the United States As of December 31, 2021, incentives in the United States included: • United States Federal Tax Credits. The Qualified Plug-In Electric Drive Motor Vehicle Tax Credit program instituted by the United States government provides a tax credit of up to $7,500 for the purchase of new qualified plug-in electric drive motor vehicles. This credit applies to the first 200,000 vehicles sold per manufacturer. As of the date of this report, purchasers of Rivian model year 2022 R1T, R1S and EDV-700 vehicles continue to be eligible for a tax credit of up to $7,500 under this program. Negotiations are underway within the United States Congress to amend this provision, but no changes have been made to the program to date. As a result, the credit remains available in its current form to all Rivian customers. In addition, the Alternative Fuel Infrastructure Tax Credit provides tax credits for businesses up to 30% of the cost of installing alternative fueling equipment, not to exceed $30,000. Consumers who purchased residential fueling equipment but were not eligible to depreciate such equipment may have received a tax credit of up to $1,000 prior to December 31, 2021. The program included electricity as an alternative fuel and potentially could have been used by Rivian customers to offset the cost of their home charging systems and by businesses to offset the costs of installing electric vehicle charging stations. Additionally, if Rivian sells such equipment to a tax-exempt entity, Rivian would have been eligible to claim the credit for itself. Unused credits may be carried backward one year and carried forward 20 years. The credits for Alternative Fuel Infrastructure expired on December 31, 2021. Despite the expiration at the end of last year, the United States Congress is considering legislation to reinstate the federal tax credit with retroactive application. This is still under negotiation and could be revived later in 2022. • State Incentives. A number of states and municipalities in the United States, as well as certain private enterprises, offer incentive programs to encourage the adoption of alternative fuel vehicles, including tax exemptions, tax credits, exemptions, and special privileges. Other states have also implemented various incentives for the purchase of eligible ZEVs based on weight class and propulsion type. For example, New Jersey and Washington exempt the purchase of EVs from state sales tax. California, Colorado, Oregon, and Oklahoma provide substantial state tax credits or rebates for the purchase of EVs. Some of these programs have eligibility limits based on either consumer income or the manufacturer’s suggested retail price of the vehicle. Others will supply rebates only until a set aside amount of funding exists. Several states will also be phasing out incentives over time or volume of EVs are sold. Other incentives include preferential parking at reduced rates, or free, or single occupancy high-occupancy vehicle access on highways for EVs. Regulations in the European Union • Europe Type Approval. We intend to export vehicles to Europe, and over time may consider manufacturing and locating additional operations in Europe. We must obtain pre-approval from regulators to import and sell our vehicles into the European Union (“EU”) and countries that recognize the EU certification. The process for meeting the EU certification requirements is known as “Type Approval” and requires Rivian to demonstrate to a regulatory agency in the EU, referred to as the Competent Authority, that our vehicles meet all EU safety and emission standards. Activities to obtain Type Approval began in 2021 and have not yet been completed. We expect to complete this process by mid-2022. 10 RIVIAN AUTOMOTIVE, INC. • EU Emissions Regulations. We believe Europe’s regulatory environment is generally conducive to the development, production and sale of consumer and commercial alternative fuel vehicles. Through emission legislation, tax incentives and direct subsidies, EU and non-EU countries in Europe are taking a progressive stance in reducing carbon emissions and increasing demand for EVs. For example, the EU has specifically implemented regulations mandating that manufacturers meeting binding emission targets according to the average mass of their vehicles. Penalties for failing to meet these targets can be substantial. Incentives in Europe In addition to a favorable regulatory environment, a number of European countries offer incentives, tax reductions or a combination of both. Intellectual Property Rivian’s intellectual property is a core asset of our company, and an important tool to drive value and differentiation in our products and services. We protect, use, and defend our intellectual property in support of our business objectives to increase our return on investment, enhance our competitive position, and create shareholder value. Through strategic and business assessments of our intellectual property, we rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, copyrights, service marks, trademarks, domains, contractual terms, and enforcement mechanisms across various international jurisdictions to establish and protect intellectual property rights related to our current and future business and operations. As of December 31, 2021, we held over 100 granted patents and registrations worldwide, and had filed over 1,000 patent applications with domestic and foreign patent offices. Subject to required payments of annuities or maintenance fees, our granted patents and registrations have term durations of between 14 to 25 years from each patent or registration’s respective priority date, the duration being set according to the laws of the jurisdiction in which the patent or registration issues. Our existing patents have term durations that are scheduled to extend until their respective expiration dates, ranging from April 2028 to December 2046, based on each patent’s respective priority date. As of December 31, 2021, we had over 800 registered trademarks and had filed over 4,000 trademark applications with domestic and foreign trademark offices. Our registered trademarks have an indefinite life subject to the payment of maintenance fees and the laws of the jurisdiction in which the trademark is registered. As of December 31, 2021, we had two registered copyrights and had filed one copyright application with foreign copyright offices. Additionally, as of December 31, 2021, we had over 1,700 registered domains worldwide. In addition, we maintain a comprehensive identification and tracking function for the maintenance and protection of our trade secrets. We intend to continue to vigorously pursue intellectual property protection to the extent we believe it would be advantageous to our business objectives. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, they may not be respected in the future or may be invalidated, circumvented, or challenged. Cybersecurity and Privacy We prioritize the trust of our customers and employees and place great emphasis on systems and product security, cybersecurity, and privacy. To protect our systems, products, and data, we apply a variety of technical and organizational security measures, procedures, and protocols in accordance with the National Institute of Standards and Technology (“NIST”) Cybersecurity Framework. We have a dedicated team of professionals that focus on application, network, and system security based upon a clearly defined organizational operating model. We have also commenced a corporate-wide data privacy program with dedicated cross-functional resources. Utilizing the NIST Cybersecurity Framework, we have instituted a cybersecurity program designed to address the evolving cyber-threat landscape. This includes a company-wide risk management structure with capabilities to assess direct and indirect vendors and an enterprise Secure Software Development Lifecycle to ensure that we reduce our attack surface by remediating vulnerabilities in the development process itself. Additionally, our identity and access management procedures and controls are consistent with the NIST Cybersecurity Framework, including measures to validate and authenticate the identity of our corporate users. We maintain a vulnerability management program that includes periodic scans designed to identify security vulnerabilities and implement a remediation. To detect threats to our enterprise and product security, we have implemented a cybersecurity monitoring capability that collects and analyzes telemetries from a wide range of sources and takes proactive 11 RIVIAN AUTOMOTIVE, INC. actions to ensure the security of our systems. In addition, we conduct internal and external penetration tests, receive threat intelligence, follow incident response procedures, and remediate vulnerabilities according to severity and risk. Further, seeking to implement effective management, control, and protection, we have established a centralized, organization-wide view of information assets. Our cloud security program seeks to enable secure cloud architecture deployments and extend security capabilities. Utilizing signed certificates, encryption keys, message authentication codes, and cryptography algorithms, we have deployed authentication and encryption as part of our efforts to secure our products, software, vehicles and their components, and OTA updates. Additionally, we utilize pre-condition checks, sequence and dependency execution, failure detection, and rollback and recovery when performing updates during the OTA process. We also work to increase cybersecurity awareness throughout the organization through education and training. Our manufacturing operations involve a great deal of automation and technology. With that level of complexity and interconnectivity in mind, we are building cybersecurity into our manufacturing process itself, with the intent of enabling the business to remain resilient to any potential attacks at our manufacturing operations. The objective of our privacy program is to facilitate beneficial uses of data to improve Rivian’s products and services while preserving our customers’ privacy expectations and complying with applicable law. Global privacy laws and practices will guide the operational design, controls, procedures, and policies for our program. Our strategy accounts for increased risk as our business scales by addressing appropriate security and access controls for customer and employee information. A core tenet of our privacy program is to implement privacy-by-design principles in both software and hardware development throughout our organization. Rivian’s privacy program will continue to evolve and adapt, utilizing best practices and tailored risk management frameworks, to allow for close collaboration across the organization, particularly between our information technology and legal functions, which is critical for an effective privacy program. Human Capital As of December 31, 2021, we had 10,422 employees across the United States, Canada, and Europe. Our global workforce is comprised of engineering and technology teams that are designing and developing future products and services, our operations and commercial teams that support the production, sale, and service of our launch vehicles, and our general and administrative teams. Our global footprint will continue to grow as we seek diverse communities to join us on our adventure. As a team, we strive to Keep The World Adventurous Forever by attracting the right people in the right roles and harnessing their adventurous spirit. Below are our Compass principles: a set of behaviors that serve as the backbone of Rivian’s organizational culture. Compass serves as our guide to ensure we preserve and augment our culture through the people we attract, develop, and inspire. • Come Together. We never take for granted the magic that occurs when thinkers and doers from different industries and geographies, lived experiences and perspectives, surround a challenge from all sides. So, we insist that our team members bring their authentic selves to work every single day. At times there will be disagreements, but that’s a good thing. Tension strengthens ideas. The scale of our impact rests on our ability to move quickly as one team. We challenge each other to deliver more as a group than we can as individuals - and get it done together. Many of our decisions around vehicle development were built on cross-functional discussion and debates which ultimately required coming together to produce the right outcome. • Ask Why. Innovation isn’t the job of a small group within the Company. Better ways of doing things are waiting to be discovered, and it’s incumbent upon all of us to approach our work from a place of curiosity. Despite the breadth of objectives and the complexity of our goals, all our ideas begin the same way - from first principles. When we start with undeniable basic truths, it opens up a world of possibility. A first-principles approach enables us to discuss ideas rather than debate different sets of ideologies or dogmas from previous experiences. Every part of the Rivian customer experience is derived from employees continuously asking why and understanding the rationale behind every decision. • Stay Open. The draw toward the unknown is strong within our team. We must continue to cultivate a willingness to greet uncertainty with open arms, and all the other stuff that comes along with it. Difficult questions. Unexpected turns. Redrawn plans. Gnawed pencils. Temple rubbing. Lots and lots of temple rubbing. When we stay open, hearts stretch, minds grow, new ideas surface and the impossible becomes fun. As our industry rapidly evolves, we don’t stand near existing anchors but instead plan ahead to imagine what this could be. 12 RIVIAN AUTOMOTIVE, INC. • Zoom Out. Look up from where you are! We’re part of not one but many interdependent ecosystems, and our actions have ripples across our entire organization and beyond. While it’s easy to get mired in the day-to-day, so focused on the task in front of us, it’s important we never lose sight of what’s at stake or why we started down this path to begin with. As we develop our commercial roadmaps and blueprints, each team curates their share of the Rivian customer experience with a keen awareness of the broader ecosystem. • Over Deliver. The word forever says it all. Our work is never done and that’s by design. Loving the world means always looking for more ways to do better. We don’t stop at good enough. In order to create the change we seek, we go beyond what is expected of us - respond to the problems of today while intentionally laying the groundwork for a better tomorrow. Multiple product launches and cutting-edge development across domains - over delivery on expectations is a core tenet of our strategy. Our Commitment to Diversity and Belonging Belonging is the ability to feel comfortable in your own skin. It is a feeling that we strive for all to experience. People are the heart of Rivian and belonging is interwoven in all we do, by establishing belonging as a driver of our culture and values. Belonging is a deliberate focus, every day. At Rivian, we celebrate diversity and strive for inclusion and equity. To support, facilitate, and drive towards the goal of belonging for all, Rivian is developing a full range of internal programs and offerings for our employees, including internal mobility, career development, and strategic hiring programs, individual and community celebrations, commitments to inclusion through allyship, and learning and development. In addition, we offer Belonging Resource Groups and other networks and initiatives which facilitate the opportunity to come together as a community in conversation, education, and moments of celebration and change. All are welcome. Our Climate Commitment Responding effectively to climate change requires collective action and urgency. We believe we have a responsibility and opportunity to play a role in the global economic transition to net zero emissions. We aim to: • measure and report GHG emissions annually; • implement decarbonization strategies in line with the The Climate Pledge through real business change and innovations, including efficiency improvements, renewables, designing for sustainability, and other carbon abatement strategies; • power our operations with 100% clean, renewable energy over time; and • take actions to remove any remaining emissions and/or neutralize them with quantifiable, real, permanent, and socially beneficial offsets to become carbon neutral. Our climate commitment is backed by our focus on applying sustainable practices across all facets of our business: • Development. In developing our products, we have designed for efficient energy use and are planning for end of vehicle life. Repairability, recyclability, and reusability will be part of our product design. Beyond designing systems that can be easily recycled, our precise understanding of the health of every vehicle positions us to support maintaining the vehicles well beyond the first customer. Beyond thinking about extending vehicle life, we plan to repurpose or reclaim our battery packs and metals and remanufacture a number of high value components to be used for service parts. • Operations. Like any company, we use resources to operate. Our goal is to do so efficiently and thoughtfully. We utilize adaptive-reuse construction practices, efficient energy management across our facilities, recyclable or reusable shipping materials at our plant, and streamlined logistics across our distribution channels. Our team is dedicated to quantifying our climate impact and improving how we operate currently and into the future. • Manufacturing. Our net zero goal requires a tenacious commitment to manufacturing innovation. We will work with our materials suppliers and supply chain partners on sustainable sourcing practices and audit waste streams to gather the data needed to drive our efforts to use materials more responsibly. As we expand production at our 13 RIVIAN AUTOMOTIVE, INC. Normal Factory, and build new sites to support our growth, environmental impact will be a significant factor in our planning and the outcomes we achieve. Forever At Rivian, we believe sustainable and inclusive business is vital to society, the environment, and humanity’s continued prosperity. Our philanthropic mission is focused on helping to Keep the World Adventurous Forever by preserving our natural systems for future generations. As part of this commitment, Forever was set up to expand our impact beyond the transportation and energy products and services we make and the associated competition they inspire. We aim to go further to address climate change and preserve the critical biodiversity needed for our planet’s long term survival. We intend to focus on high impact climate initiatives and preserving bio-diverse land, as these natural landscapes and seascapes are powerful carbon sinks, pulling carbon dioxide from the atmosphere and storing carbon in soil, grasses, shrubs, trees, coral reefs, sea grasses, and ocean floor sediments. We believe that these preservation efforts will help create a forcing function that helps drive the world to shift to more sustainable consumption behaviors and preserve the planet and its atmosphere for the many generations that will follow us. In addition to land conservation and sustainable consumption initiatives, Forever will include research and educational stewardship intended to help communities understand, appreciate, and learn how to preserve our planet’s natural resources for future generations. Just as we strive to make the outdoors accessible to all, we need to make sure that we get as much of the world as possible engaged in the transition to a sustainable future. Forever is comprised of two separate entities: Forever by Rivian, Inc., a 501(c)(4) social welfare organization (“Forever by Rivian”), and a 501(c)(3) non-operating private foundation (the “Rivian Foundation”). In conjunction with our initial public offering (“IPO”), the Company donated approximately 8 million shares of Class A common stock and $20 million in cash as the initial funding of Forever by Rivian. By funding Forever by Rivian with our equity, the natural world will become a stakeholder in our success and as our company’s value grows by transitioning our customers to sustainable transportation solutions, so will the value of our impact and philanthropic giving creating a virtuous cycle of impact. With this sizable initial funding, we have no short-term plans to provide additional direct funding to Forever by Rivian in the future. This is a critical moment where we must come together for the next generation. That is what we are trying to inspire — to Keep the World Adventurous Forever. Corporate Information Rivian Automotive, Inc. was incorporated on March 26, 2015 as a Delaware corporation. Our principal executive offices are located at 14600 Myford Road, Irvine, CA 92606, and our telephone number is (888) 748-4261. Our website address is www.rivian.com. Information contained on, or that can be accessed through, our website does not constitute part of this Form 10-K, and the inclusion of our website address in this Form 10-K is an inactive textual reference only. We have proprietary rights to trademarks, trade names, and service marks appearing in this Form 10-K that are important to our business. Solely for convenience, the trademarks, trade names, and service marks may appear in this Form 10-K without the ®, ™, and ℠ symbols, but any such references are not intended to indicate, in any way, that we forgo or will not assert, to the fullest extent under applicable law, our rights or the rights of the applicable licensors to these trademarks, trade names, and service marks. All trademarks, trade names, and service marks appearing in this Form 10-K are the property of their respective owners. Available Information The Company’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, are available, free of charge, on our Investor Relations website at https://rivian.com/investors as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The SEC maintains a website at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy, information statements and other information regarding registrants that file electronically with the SEC. We use our Investor Relations website as a means of disclosing material information. Accordingly, investors should monitor our Investor Relations website, in addition to following our press releases, SEC filings, and public conference calls and webcasts. 14 RIVIAN AUTOMOTIVE, INC. Item 1A.