 PART I Item 1. Business. General Effective June 1, 2020, our corporate name has changed to The Shyft Group, Inc. (f/k/a Spartan Motors, Inc.). The new corporate name reflects the next phase of our business transformation with an increased focus on higher growth commercial, retail, and service specialty vehicle markets. The Shyft Group, Inc. was organized as a Michigan corporation on September 18, 1975, and is headquartered in Novi, Michigan. As used herein, the term “Company”, “we”, “us” or “our” refers to The Shyft Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries unless designated or identified otherwise. We are a niche market leader in specialty vehicle manufacturing and assembly for the commercial vehicle (including last-mile delivery, specialty service and vocation-specific upfit segments) and recreational vehicle industries. Our products include walk-in vans and truck bodies used in e-commerce/parcel delivery, upfit equipment used in the mobile retail and utility trades, service and vocational truck bodies, luxury Class A diesel motorhome chassis, and contract manufacturing and assembly services. Further, we supply replacement parts and offer repair, maintenance, field service and refurbishment services for the vehicles that we manufacture and assemble. Our operating activities are conducted through our wholly-owned operating subsidiary, The Shyft Group USA, Inc., with locations in Novi and Charlotte, Michigan; Bristol, Indiana; Waterville, Maine; Ephrata, Pennsylvania; North Charleston, South Carolina; Pompano Beach and West Palm Beach, Florida; Kansas City, Missouri; Montebello, Carson and McClellan Park, California; Mesa, Arizona; Dallas and Weatherford, Texas; and Saltillo, Mexico. Our vehicles, parts and services are sold to commercial users, original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), dealers, individual end users, and municipalities and other governmental entities. Our diversification across several sectors provides numerous opportunities while reducing overall risk as the various markets we serve tend to have different cyclicality. We have an innovative team focused on building lasting relationships with our customers by designing and delivering market leading specialty vehicles, vehicle components, and services. Additionally, our business structure provides agility to quickly respond to market needs, take advantage of strategic opportunities when they arise and correctly size and scale operations to ensure stability and growth. Our expansion of equipment upfit services in our Fleet Vehicles and Services segment, and the growing opportunities that we have capitalized on in last mile delivery as a result of the rapidly changing e-commerce market, are excellent examples of our ability to generate growth and profitability by quickly fulfilling customer needs. Impact of COVID-19 On January 30, 2020, the World Health Organization (“WHO”) announced a global health emergency because of a new strain of coronavirus (“COVID-19”). On March 11, 2020, the WHO classified the COVID-19 outbreak as a pandemic, based on the rapid increase in exposure globally. The pandemic has had a significant impact on macroeconomic conditions. To limit the spread of COVID-19, governments have taken various actions including the issuance of stay-at-home orders and social distancing guidelines. While the Company’s plants continued to operate as essential businesses, starting March 23, 2020 certain of our manufacturing facilities were temporarily suspended or cut back on operating levels and shifts as a result of government orders. As of June 30, 2020, approximately 90% of our facilities were at full or modified production levels and as of September 30 and December 31, 2020, all of our facilities were at full or modified production levels. However, additional suspensions and cutbacks may occur as the impacts from COVID-19 and related responses continue to evolve within our global supply chain and customer base. The Company is taking a variety of measures to maintain operations with as minimal impact as possible to promote the safety and security of our associates, including increased frequency of cleaning and disinfecting of facilities, social distancing, remote working when possible, travel restrictions and limitations on visitor access to facilities. We took actions to align operations and spending across our business in response to uncertainty caused by the COVID-19 outbreak during 2020. This included actions that impacted the second and third quarter of 2020, such as temporary compensation reductions for executive management and the Board of Directors, furloughs of a portion of our workforce, freezing associate requisitions and minimizing capital expenditures to critical investments. The full impact of the COVID-19 outbreak continues to evolve as of the date of this filing. As such, it is uncertain as to the full magnitude that the pandemic will have on the Company’s financial condition, liquidity, and future results of operations. Management is actively monitoring the impact of the global situation on its financial condition, liquidity, operations, suppliers, industry, and workforce. Given the nature of the COVID-19 outbreak and the global responses to curb its spread, the Company is not able to estimate the effects of the COVID-19 outbreak on its results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity for future periods. 3 Impact of CARES Act On March 27, 2020, President Trump signed into law the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security Act (the “CARES Act”). The CARES Act, among other things, includes provisions relating to refundable payroll tax credits, deferment of employer side social security payments, net operating loss carryback periods, alternative minimum tax credit refunds, modifications to the net interest deduction limitations and technical corrections to tax depreciation methods for qualified improvement property. As a result, the Company recorded an income tax benefit of $2.6 million in the first quarter of 2020 and has also made provision to defer the employer side social security payments for the last three quarters of 2020, to be paid in two equal installment payments of $2.0 million each in 2021 and 2022. We will continue to examine the potential impacts of the CARES Act on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Acquisition of F3 MFG, Inc. On October 1, 2020, the Company acquired substantially all of the assets and certain liabilities of F3 MFG Inc. through the Company’s subsidiary, The Shyft Group DuraMag LLC (“DuraMag”). DuraMag is a leading aluminum truck body and accessory manufacturer, and DuraMag operations include aluminum manufacturing, finishing, assembly, and installation of DuraMag contractor, service, and van bodies, as well as Magnum branded truck accessories including headache racks (also known as cab protection racks or rear racks). DuraMag operates out of Waterville, Maine and that location is expected to continue to serve as the business’ primary manufacturing and assembly facility for both product lines. The addition of DuraMag aluminum bodies to the Company's product offerings follows the Company’s 2019 acquisition of Royal Truck Body ("Royal"), a West Coast and Southwestern U.S. steel truck body maker. Combined, these acquisitions elevate the Company to a leading position as a national service body manufacturer. DuraMag is part of our Specialty Vehicle segment (f/k/a Specialty Chassis and Vehicles) and continues to go to market under the DuraMag and Magnum brands. Divestiture of the Emergency Response and Vehicle Business On February 1, 2020, the Company completed its sale of the Emergency Response and Vehicle (“ERV”) business for $55.0 million in cash, subject to certain post-closing adjustments. In September 2020, the Company finalized the post-close net working capital adjustment and subsequently paid $7.5 million on October 1, 2020. The ERV business consisted of the emergency response cab-chassis operations in Charlotte, Michigan, and the apparatus operations in Brandon, South Dakota; Snyder and Neligh, Nebraska; and Ephrata, Pennsylvania. The divestiture allows us to further focus on accelerating growth and profitability in our commercial, fleet, delivery and specialty vehicles markets. As a result of this divestiture, the ERV business is accounted for as a discontinued operation for all periods presented. See "Note 2 – Discontinued Operations " of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further discussion of this transaction. Acquisition of Royal Truck Body On September 9, 2019, the Company completed the acquisition of Fortress Resources, LLC d/b/a Royal Truck Body for $89.2 million in cash, subject to certain post-closing adjustments. Royal is a leading California-based designer, manufacturer and installer of service truck bodies and accessories. Royal manufactures and assembles truck body options for various trades and engineers, manufactures, assembles, and mounts service truck bodies, stake bodies, contractor bodies, dump beds, and more. Royal is one of the largest service body companies in the western United States with its principal facility in Carson, California. Royal has additional manufacturing, assembly, and service space in branch locations in McClellan Park, California; Mesa, Arizona; and Dallas and Weatherford, Texas. This acquisition allowed us to quickly expand our footprint in the western United States supporting our strategy of coast-to-coast manufacturing and distribution. Royal is part of our Specialty Vehicles segment. See "Note 3 – Acquisition Activities " of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further discussion of this transaction. 4 Performance Overview Unless noted otherwise, the data in this Form 10-K reflects our continuing operations and, therefore, excludes the performance of our prior ERV business. Over the past five years our sales have increased by $268.2 million, a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 13.5%, while income from continuing operations and Adjusted EBITDA have grown by $20.0 million and $44.2 million, respectively. Please see the reconciliation of income from continuing operations to Adjusted EBITDA near the end of Item 1 of this Form 10-K. Our Segments We identify our reportable segments based on our management structure and the financial data utilized by our chief operating decision maker to assess segment performance and allocate resources among our operating units. We have two reportable segments: Fleet Vehicles and Services ("FVS") and Specialty Vehicles ("SV"). For certain financial information related to each segment, see "Note 17 – Business Segments " of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Sales by segment is as follows: Fleet Vehicles and Services Segment We manufacture commercial vehicles used in the e-commerce/last mile/parcel delivery, beverage and grocery delivery, laundry and linen, mobile retail, and trades and construction industries through our Bristol, Indiana; Ephrata, Pennsylvania; North Charleston, South Carolina; Charlotte, Michigan and Montebello, California locations. Our commercial vehicles are marketed under the Utilimaster brand name, which serves a diverse customer base and sells aftermarket parts and accessories for walk-in vans and other delivery vehicles. We also provide vocation-specific equipment upfit services, which are marketed and sold under the Utilimaster Upfit Services and Strobes-R-Us go-to-market brands, through our manufacturing operations in Kansas City, Missouri; North Charleston, South Carolina; Pompano Beach and West Palm Beach, Florida; and Saltillo, Mexico. Our Fleet Vehicles and Services segment employed 1,500 associates and 700 contractors as of December 31, 2020. 5 We offer fleet vehicles in Gross Vehicle Weight Rating ("GVWR") Class 1 through Class 7, the largest range of product offerings amongst our competitors. Innovation Our Solution Experts employ a customer-centric approach by working with customers through a process of listening and learning, needs assessment, and design innovation through building and implementing solutions designed with our customers and their end customers in mind. Recent innovations implemented by our Solution Experts include innovative and cost saving solutions for the specialty service segment, utility industry, food and beverage delivery, and mobile retail industry, such as safe loading equipment, keyless entry and cargo access systems, backup camera systems, and refrigeration solutions. Our teams can deliver product customization ranging from out-of-the-box to 100% custom solutions, based on customer needs and business requirements. Recent innovations launched by the product development team include a new walk-in-van format, named the Velocity. Available in GVWR Class 2 and Class 3 designs, the Velocity lineup spans multiple OEM chassis formats to accommodate buyer preference and to increase manufacturing and distribution scale, as Utilimaster build operations are aligned with OEM chassis manufacturing and ship through locations. During 2020, additional emphasis was placed on innovating for the changing alternative propulsion space with additional R&D efforts placed into marrying body builds with multiple electric vehicle platforms. 6 Products Walk-in Vans Assembled on a de-contented or “stripped” truck chassis supplied with engine and drive train components, our walk-in vans are used across a variety of vocations for multiple delivery and mobile service options. The vehicles feature a durable and lightweight aluminum body with a highly modularized cargo area, featuring extensive driver ergonomics options and a low step-in height for easy entry and egress. Truck Bodies Utilimaster dry van truck bodies are the industry standard for heavy-duty commercial delivery and are installed on chassis from a variety of manufacturers, which are supplied with a finished cab. They feature a highly customizable cargo area for maximum versatility and are manufactured with anti-rust galvanized steel and aluminum component parts. Available with cargo lengths from 10 to 28 feet and interior heights ranging from 72 to 108 inches. Cutaway Utilimaster cutaway truck bodies are the industry standard for medium-duty commercial delivery and are installed on chassis from a variety of manufacturers that are supplied with a finished cab. The highly configurable design can be configured with a set-back walk-through bulkhead allowing access to the cargo area from the cab. Available with cargo lengths from 10 to 18 feet and interior heights ranging from 72 to 90 inches. Velocity® A nimble, fuel efficient, and ergonomically designed walk-in van lineup built on commercial cargo van chassis across OEMs are designed to combine the cargo capacity of a traditional walk-in-van with the drivability of a smaller format vehicle. The Velocity lineup makes large product/package deliveries easy, with lower entry/egress height and 3-point grab rails at side and rear doors, and comfortable safe seats. Economical to operate, the Velocity features a total cost of ownership about half that of a traditional walk-in van. Specialty Upfit We install specialty interior and exterior upfit equipment for walk-in vans, truck bodies, cargo vans, and light duty pick-up trucks for added safety, cargo handling efficiency, and vocational functionality. 7 Parts and Accessories We provide a full line of parts and accessories for our walk-in vans and truck bodies. Marketing We market our commercial vehicles, including walk-in vans, cutaway vans, and truck bodies, under the Aeromaster®, Velocity, Trademaster®, and Utilivan® product brand names. We sell our fleet vehicles to leasing companies, national and fleet accounts (national accounts typically have 1,000+ vehicle fleets and fleet accounts typically have 100+ vehicle fleets), and through a network of independent truck dealers in the U.S. and Canada. We also market our truck bodies direct to retail customers in select markets. We provide aftermarket support, including parts sales and field services, to all of our fleet vehicle customers through our Customer Service Department located in Bristol, Indiana. Manufacturing We are implementing the Shyft Production System, lean manufacturing and continuous improvement in all of our fleet vehicle facilities in order to maximize efficiency and reduce costs. We manufacture walk-in vans at our Bristol, Indiana facility and truck bodies at our Ephrata, Pennsylvania; Montebello, California; and Charlotte, Michigan facilities. We have facilities at Kansas City, Missouri; North Charleston, South Carolina; Pompano Beach and West Palm Beach, Florida; and Saltillo, Mexico aligned with our commercial and OEM customers for the installation of upfit equipment. Our walk-in vans and truck bodies are manufactured on non-automated assembly lines utilizing a combination of high- and low-skilled tradespeople and assemblers. Our upfit facilities utilize teams of workers requiring minimal capital investment for efficient and timely installation of a variety of equipment. Specialty Vehicles Segment Our Specialty Vehicles segment operates out of our Charlotte, Michigan facility where we engineer and manufacture luxury Class A diesel motorhome chassis, provide contract assembly of specialty vehicles and other commercial vehicles, and distribute related aftermarket parts and accessories under the Spartan RV Chassis and Builtmore Contract Manufacturing go-to-market brand names. Our specialty vehicle products are manufactured to customer specifications upon receipt of confirmed purchase orders. As a specialty chassis and vehicle manufacturer, we believe we hold a unique position for continued growth due to the high quality and performance of our products, our engineering reaction time, manufacturing expertise and flexibility, and the scalability of our operations. Our specialty vehicle products are generally sold through original equipment manufacturers in the case of chassis and vehicles and to dealer distributors or directly to consumers for aftermarket parts and accessories. Beginning in September 2019 with our acquisition of Royal, the Specialty Vehicles segment includes operations in Carson and McClellan Park, California; Mesa, Arizona; and Dallas and Weatherford, Texas. Royal is a leading California-based designer, manufacturer and installer of service truck bodies and accessories. Beginning in October 2020 with our acquisition of DuraMag, the Specialty Vehicles segment includes operations in Waterville, Maine. DuraMag is a leading aluminum truck body and accessory manufacturer and its operations include aluminum manufacturing, finishing, assembly, and installation of DuraMag contractor, service, and van bodies, as well as Magnum branded truck accessories including headache racks. The Specialty Vehicles segment employed 600 associates and 100 contractors as of December 31, 2020. Innovation We promote effective communication through trade shows and motorhome rallies with a wide variety of motorhome owners to identify needs and bring our customers the latest technology and highest quality in our motorhome and specialty chassis. Over the past few years, we have introduced innovations on our motorhome chassis, including: custom tuned suspensions, independent front suspension, and passive steer tag axle that greatly improve ride, handling and maneuverability; adaptive cruise control, collision mitigation, electronic stability control and lane departure warning to improve safety; and automatic air leveling that adds convenience and functionality to top line motorhomes. 8 Products Motorhome Chassis We custom manufacture diesel chassis for luxury Class A motorhomes to the individual specifications of our motorhome OEM customers under the Spartan RV Chassis go-to-market brand name. These specifications vary based on specific interior and exterior design specifications, power requirements, horsepower, and electrical needs of the motor home bodies to be attached to our chassis. Our motorhome chassis feature diesel engines of 360 to 605 horsepower and are used in motor homes ranging from 37 to 45 feet. Our motorhome chassis are separated into four models: the K1, K2, K3, and K4 series chassis. Contract Manufacturing We provide final assembly services for Isuzu N-gas and F-series chassis for the North American market under the Builtmore Contract Manufacturing go-to-market brand name. These class 3 and class 5 chassis are utilized in a variety of final configurations for light duty freight hauling and industrial uses. We have a low-cost structure and a highly skilled team of assembly workers, which, along with a dedication to lean manufacturing and continuous improvement allow us to deliver superior value in contract manufacturing. We also partner with a variety of OEM customers to provide chassis and complete vehicle assembly for other specialty chassis and vehicles under the Builtmore Contract Manufacturing brand name. Service Truck Bodies We manufacture and assemble truck body options for a variety of trades, service truck bodies, stake body trucks, contractor trucks and dump bed trucks under the Royal Truck Body and DuraMag go-to-market brand names. Parts and Accessories We provide a full line of parts and accessories for our motorhome and specialty chassis as well as maintenance and repair services for our motorhome and specialty chassis. Marketing We sell our Class A diesel motorhome chassis to OEM manufacturers for use in construction of premium motor homes. We actively participate in a variety of trade shows and motor home rallies that promote our products and aftermarket parts and services in addition to providing an opportunity to communicate with our end customers to showcase our latest innovations and identify needs and opportunities for continuous improvement of our chassis. We sell our service truck bodies through a commercial dealer network through OEM pools, and actively participate in a variety of regional and national trade shows that promote our products. 9 Manufacturing Our motorhome chassis, service truck body, and specialty manufacturing operations benefit from implementing the Shyft Production System, lean manufacturing, and continuous improvement to bring efficiency and cost reduction throughout our Specialty Vehicles segment. We engineer, manufacture, and assemble Spartan RV chassis, as well as contract manufacture other specialty vehicles on non-automated assembly lines. We assemble both the Isuzu N- and F-series chassis on high-volume assembly lines that utilize a variety of state-of-the-art automation and testing equipment. Competition The principal methods we use to build competitive advantages include short engineering reaction time, custom design capability, high product quality, superior customer service and quick delivery. We employ a solutions-based approach to offer specialized products tailored to customer needs across the spectrum of our products. We compete with companies that manufacture for similar markets, including some divisions of large diversified organizations that have total sales and financial resources exceeding ours. Our competition in the fleet vehicle market ranges from one large manufacturer in the walk-in van market to a number of smaller manufacturers in the truck body and equipment upfit markets. Our competitors in the specialty vehicle market are principally large multi-product line manufacturers of specialty and heavy-duty vehicles. Suppliers We are dedicated to establishing long-term and mutually beneficial relationships with our suppliers. Through these relationships, we benefit from new innovations, higher quality, reduced lead times, smoother/faster manufacturing ramp-up of new vehicle introductions and lower total costs of doing business. Our accelerating growth and company-wide supply chain management initiatives allow us to benefit from economies of scale and maximize focus on a common vision. The single largest commodity directly utilized in production is aluminum, which we purchase under purchase agreements based on forecasted production requirements. To a lesser extent we are dependent upon suppliers of lumber, fiberglass and steel for our manufacturing. We have initiated long-term supplier agreements and are consolidating suppliers where beneficial to gain pricing advantages. There are several readily available sources for the majority of these raw materials. However, we are heavily dependent on specific component part products from a few single source vendors. We maintain a qualification, on-site inspection, assistance, and performance measurement system to control risks associated with reliance on suppliers. We normally do not carry inventories of such raw materials or components in excess of those reasonably required to meet production and shipping schedules. Material and component cost increases are passed on to our customers whenever possible. There can be no assurance that there will not be any supply issues over the long-term. In the assembly of our fleet vehicles, we use chassis supplied by third parties, and generally do not purchase these chassis for inventory. For this market, we typically accept shipment of truck chassis owned by dealers or end users, for the purpose of installing and/or manufacturing our specialized commercial vehicles on such chassis, but from time to time we do purchase chassis for use in fulfilling certain customer orders. Research and Development Our success depends on our ability to innovate and add new products and features ahead of changing market demands and new regulatory requirements. Thus, we emphasize research and development and commit significant resources to develop and adapt new products and production techniques. Our engineering team is looking past “current practices” and “best practices” to deliver “next practices” for our customers and shareholders. Our engineering group is organized as a unified team serving one goal throughout the company: to deliver world class products and manufacturing processes regardless of product line or location. Results are accomplished with the appropriate blend of predictive analysis and physical property testing in our Research and Development facilities along with ride-and-drive analysis. Our efforts range from executing special orders for current production; to new production development for new functionality and product improvements; to exciting technologies that are new to the markets we serve, like vehicle electrification. Our engineering actions are driven by our firm commitment to safety, quality, delivery, and productivity. We spent $4.4 million, $4.9 million, and $3.7 million on research and development in 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively. 10 Product Warranties We provide limited warranties against assembly and construction defects. These warranties generally provide for the replacement or repair of defective parts or workmanship for specified periods, ranging from one year to twenty years, following the date of sale. With the use of validation testing, predictive analysis tools and engineering and design standards, we strive to continuously improve product quality and durability, and reduce our exposure to warranty claims. The end users also may receive limited warranties from suppliers of components that are incorporated into our chassis and vehicles. For more information concerning our product warranties, see "Note 11 – Commitments and Contingent Liabilities " of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 appearing in this Form 10-K. Patents, Trademarks and Licenses We have 14 United States patents, which include rights to the design and structure of chassis and certain peripheral equipment and we have nine pending patent applications in the United States. The existing patents will expire on various dates from 2020 through 2033 and all are subject to payment of required maintenance fees. We also own or license 132 federal and international trademark and service mark registrations. The trademark and service mark registrations are generally renewable under applicable laws, subject to payment of required fees and the filing of affidavits of use. In addition, we have various pending trademark applications. Our products and services are identified by our trademarks and service marks. Our trademarks and service marks are valuable assets to both of our business segments. We are not aware of any infringing uses or any prior claims of ownership of our trademarks that could materially affect our business. It is our policy to pursue registration of our primary marks whenever possible and to vigorously defend our patents, trademarks and other proprietary marks against infringement or other threats to the extent practicable under applicable laws. Environmental Matters Compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations has not had, nor is it expected to have, a material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. We believe in the preservation of the environment because it leads to a safer, healthier world for today and in the future. In addition to our other product offerings, we offer alternative fuel specialty vehicles to help reduce pollutant emissions. We also subscribe to environmentally conscious manufacturing practices while working to obtain ISO 14001 certification for some locations in 2021, and we strongly encourage our suppliers to have similar manufacturing philosophies. We recycle waste in many aspects of our daily operations and in our offices. Human Capital Management Our people are a critical component in our continued success. As a team, they put The Shyft Group’s core values into action, while executing on key growth initiatives to maintain long-term sustainable growth. We strive to create a workplace of choice to attract, retain, and develop top talent to achieve our vision and deliver shareholder results. As of December 31, 2020, we employed 3,000 associates and contractors. Approximately 26% of our total workforce consists of contract associates, including all personnel at our Saltillo, Mexico operation. Of our total workforce, 89% of our associates reside in the United States, with the remaining 11% in Mexico. Our production processes leverage a combination of skilled tradespeople and high-touch assemblers working in body, electrical, mechanical, paint, and assembly operations. We adhere to a philosophy that includes, among other things, commitments to create ongoing job opportunities, pay fair wages, and protect worker health and safety. Fundamental to these commitments are our Company’s core values of honesty and integrity, accountability, trust, and performance excellence. Management considers its relations with associates to be positive. 11 Customer Base We serve customers ranging from municipalities to OEMs to commercial customers and vehicle dealers throughout our product lines. Sales to our top 10 customers in 2020 accounted for 71.5% of our sales. Sales to customers that individually exceeded 10% of our consolidated sales for 2020, 2019 and 2018 are detailed in the chart below. We do have other significant customers which, if the relationship changes significantly, could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. We believe that we have developed strong relationships with our customers and continually work to develop new customers and markets. See related risk factors in Item 1A of this Form 10-K. Sales to customers outside the United States were $9.5 million, $21.4 million and $21.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively, or 1.4%, 2.8% and 3.7%, respectively, of sales for those years. Substantially all of our long-lived assets are located in the United States. Order Backlog Our order backlog by reportable segment is summarized in the following table (in thousands). Our FVS backlog increased by $121.4 million, or 39.7%, driven by new orders for walk-in vans offset by the build out of the USPS contract that originated in 2017 and was completed in 2019. Our SV segment backlog increased by $20.6 million, or 67.0%, due to an increase in Class A diesel motorhome market demand and service body orders. While orders in the backlog are subject to modification, cancellation or rescheduling by customers, this has not been a major factor in the past. Although the backlog of unfilled orders is one of many indicators of market demand, several factors, such as changes in production rates, available capacity, chassis availability, new product introductions and competitive pricing actions, may affect actual sales. Accordingly, a comparison of backlog from period-to-period is not necessarily indicative of eventual actual shipments. Non-GAAP Financial Measure This report presents Adjusted EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization), which is a non-GAAP financial measure. This non-GAAP measure is calculated by excluding items that we believe to be infrequent or not indicative of our underlying operating performance, as well as certain non-cash expenses. We define Adjusted EBITDA as income from continuing operations before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, as adjusted to eliminate the impact of restructuring charges, acquisition related expenses and adjustments, non-cash stock-based compensation expenses, and other gains and losses not reflective of our ongoing operations. 12 We present the non-GAAP measure Adjusted EBITDA because we consider it to be an important supplemental measure of our performance. The presentation of Adjusted EBITDA enables investors to better understand our operations by removing items that we believe are not representative of our continuing operations and may distort our longer-term operating trends. We believe this measure to be useful to improve the comparability of our results from period to period and with our competitors, as well as to show ongoing results from operations distinct from items that are infrequent or not indicative of our continuing operating performance. We believe that presenting this non-GAAP measure is useful to investors because it permits investors to view performance using the same tools that management uses to budget, make operating and strategic decisions, and evaluate our historical performance. We believe that the presentation of this non-GAAP measure, when considered together with the corresponding GAAP financial measures and the reconciliations to that measure, provides investors with additional understanding of the factors and trends affecting our business than could be obtained in the absence of this disclosure. Our management uses Adjusted EBITDA to evaluate the performance of and allocate resources to our segments. Adjusted EBITDA is also used, along with other financial and non-financial measures, for purposes of determining annual incentive compensation for our management team and long-term incentive compensation for certain members of our management team. The following table reconciles Income from continuing operations to Adjusted EBITDA for the periods indicated. Available Information Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and other reports (and amendments thereto) filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act are available, free of charge, on our internet website ( www.TheShyftGroup.com ) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The SEC maintains an internet website (www.sec.gov ) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Item 1A.