 PART I Item 1. Business. General As used herein, the term “Company”, “we”, “us” or “our” refers to The Shyft Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries unless designated or identified otherwise. We are a niche market leader in specialty vehicle manufacturing and assembly for the commercial vehicle (including last-mile delivery, specialty service and vocation-specific upfit segments) and recreational vehicle industries. Our products include walk-in vans and truck bodies used in e-commerce/parcel delivery, upfit equipment used in the mobile retail and utility trades, luxury Class A diesel motor home chassis and contract manufacturing and assembly services. We also supply replacement parts and offer repair, maintenance, field service and refurbishment services for the vehicles that we manufacture. Our operating activities are conducted through our wholly-owned operating subsidiary, The Shyft Group USA, Inc., with locations in Novi, Charlotte, and Plymouth, Michigan; Bristol, Indiana; Waterville, Maine; Landisville, Pennsylvania; North Charleston, South Carolina; Pompano Beach and West Palm Beach, Florida; Kansas City, Missouri; Carson, McClellan Park, and Montebello, California; Mesa, Arizona; Dallas and Weatherford, Texas; and Saltillo, Mexico. Our vehicles, parts and services are sold to commercial users, original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), dealers, individual end users, and municipalities and other governmental entities. Our diversification across several sectors provides numerous opportunities while reducing overall risk as the various markets we serve tend to have different cyclicality. We have an innovative team focused on building lasting relationships with our customers by designing and delivering market leading specialty vehicles, vehicle components, and services. Additionally, our business structure provides agility to quickly respond to market needs, take advantage of strategic opportunities when they arise and correctly size and scale operations to ensure stability and growth. Our growing opportunities that we have capitalized on in last mile delivery as a result of the rapidly changing e-commerce market is an excellent example of our ability to generate growth and profitability by quickly fulfilling customer needs. Performance Overview Unless noted otherwise, the data in this Form 10-K reflects our continuing operations and, therefore, excludes the performance of our prior ERV business. Over the past five years our sales have increased by $587.6 million, a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 25.2%, while income from continuing operations has grown by $52.5 million, a CAGR of 41.4%, and Adjusted EBITDA has grown by $76.4 million, a CAGR of 35.9%. Please see the reconciliation of income from continuing operations to Adjusted EBITDA near the end of Item 1 of this Form 10-K. 3 Our Segments We identify our reportable segments based on our management structure and the financial data utilized by our chief operating decision maker to assess segment performance and allocate resources among our operating units. We have two reportable segments: Fleet Vehicles and Services ("FVS") and Specialty Vehicles ("SV"). As of October 1, 2021, the composition of both reportable segments changed due to an internal reorganization as certain businesses previously managed and reported within FVS are now a part of SV. Corresponding items of segment information for earlier periods have been recast. For certain financial information related to each segment, see "Note 17 – Business Segments " of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Sales by segment are as follows: Fleet Vehicles and Services Segment We manufacture commercial vehicles used in the e-commerce/last mile/parcel delivery, beverage and grocery delivery, laundry and linen, mobile retail, and trades and construction industries through our Bristol, Indiana; Landisville, Pennsylvania; North Charleston, South Carolina; and Charlotte, Michigan locations. Our commercial vehicles are marketed under the Utilimaster brand name, which serves a diverse customer base and sells aftermarket parts and accessories for walk-in vans and other delivery vehicles. We also provide vocation-specific equipment upfit services, which are marketed and sold as Utilimaster Upfit Services, through our manufacturing operations in Kansas City, Missouri; North Charleston, South Carolina; and Saltillo, Mexico. Our Fleet Vehicles and Services segment employed approximately 2,100 employees and 400 contractors as of December 31, 2021. We offer fleet vehicles in Gross Vehicle Weight Rating ("GVWR") Class 1 through Class 7, the largest range of product offerings amongst our competitors. Innovation Our Solution Experts employ a customer-centric approach by working with customers through a process of listening and learning, needs assessment, and design innovation through building and implementing solutions designed with our customers and their end customers in mind. Recent innovations implemented by our Solution Experts include innovative and cost saving solutions for the specialty service segment, utility industry, food and beverage delivery, and mobile retail industry, such as safe loading equipment, keyless entry and cargo access systems, backup camera systems, and refrigeration solutions. Our teams can deliver product customization ranging from out-of-the-box to 100% custom solutions, based on customer needs and business requirements. 4 Recent innovations launched by the product development team include a new walk-in-van format, named the Velocity. Available in GVWR Class 2 and Class 3 designs, the Velocity lineup spans multiple OEM chassis formats to accommodate buyer preference and to increase manufacturing and distribution scale, as Utilimaster build operations are aligned with OEM chassis manufacturing. Products Walk-in Vans Assembled on a de-contented or “stripped” truck chassis supplied with engine and drive train components, our walk-in vans are used across a variety of vocations for multiple delivery and mobile service options. The vehicles feature a durable and lightweight aluminum body with a highly modularized cargo area, featuring extensive driver ergonomics options and a low step-in height for easy entry and egress. Truck Bodies Utilimaster dry van truck bodies are the industry standard for heavy-duty commercial delivery and are installed on chassis from a variety of manufacturers, which are supplied with a finished cab. They feature a highly customizable cargo area for maximum versatility and are manufactured with anti-rust galvanized steel and aluminum component parts. Available with cargo lengths from 10 to 28 feet and interior heights ranging from 72 to 108 inches. Cutaway Utilimaster cutaway truck bodies are the industry standard for medium-duty commercial delivery and are installed on chassis from a variety of manufacturers that are supplied with a finished cab. The highly configurable design can be configured with a set-back walk-through bulkhead allowing access to the cargo area from the cab. Available with cargo lengths from 10 to 18 feet and interior heights ranging from 72 to 90 inches. Velocity® A nimble, fuel efficient, and ergonomically designed walk-in van lineup built on commercial cargo van chassis across OEMs is designed to combine the cargo capacity of a traditional walk-in-van with the drivability of a smaller format vehicle. The Velocity lineup makes large product/package deliveries easy, with lower entry/egress height and 3-point grab rails at side and rear doors, and comfortable safe seats. Economical to operate, the Velocity features a total cost of ownership about half that of a traditional walk-in van. Specialty Upfit We install specialty interior and exterior upfit equipment for walk-in vans, truck bodies, cargo vans, and light duty pick-up trucks for added safety, cargo handling efficiency, and vocational functionality. Parts and Accessories We provide a full line of parts and accessories for our walk-in vans and truck bodies. 5 Marketing We market our commercial vehicles, including walk-in vans, cutaway vans, and truck bodies, under the Aeromaster®, Velocity, Trademaster®, and Utilivan® product brand names. We sell our fleet vehicles to leasing companies, national and fleet accounts (national accounts typically have 1,000+ vehicle fleets and fleet accounts typically have 100+ vehicle fleets), and through a network of independent truck dealers in the U.S. and Canada. We also market our truck bodies direct to retail customers in select markets. We provide aftermarket support, including parts sales and field services, to all of our fleet vehicle customers through our Customer Service Department located in Bristol, Indiana. Manufacturing We have implemented the Shyft Production System, lean manufacturing and continuous improvement in all of our fleet vehicle facilities in order to maximize efficiency and reduce costs. We manufacture walk-in vans at our Bristol, Indiana facility and truck bodies at our Landisville, Pennsylvania; and Kansas City, Missouri facilities. We have facilities at North Charleston, South Carolina; Kansas City, Missouri; and Saltillo, Mexico aligned with our commercial and OEM customers for the installation of upfit equipment. Our walk-in vans and truck bodies are manufactured on non-automated assembly lines utilizing a combination of high-skilled tradespeople and assemblers. Our upfit facilities utilize teams of workers requiring minimal capital investment for efficient and timely installation of a variety of equipment. Specialty Vehicles Segment Our Specialty Vehicles segment includes our Spartan RV chassis and Builtmore Contract Manufacturing out of our Charlotte, Michigan facility where we engineer and manufacture luxury Class A diesel motorhome chassis, provide contract assembly of specialty vehicles and other commercial vehicles, and distribute related aftermarket parts and accessories under the Spartan RV Chassis and Builtmore Contract Manufacturing brand names. Our service truck bodies operations include locations in Carson, McClellan Park, and Montebello, California; Mesa, Arizona; Dallas and Weatherford, Texas; and Waterville, Maine. We also provide vocation-specific equipment upfit services, which are marketed and sold under the Strobes-R-Us brand, through our manufacturing operations in Pompano and West Palm Beach, Florida. Our specialty vehicle products are manufactured to customer specifications upon receipt of confirmed purchase orders. As a specialty chassis and vehicle manufacturer, we believe we hold a unique position for continued growth due to the high quality and performance of our products, our proactive engineering, manufacturing expertise and flexibility, and the scalability of our operations. Our specialty vehicle products are generally sold through original equipment manufacturers in the case of chassis and vehicles and to dealers, distributors or directly to consumers for truck bodies and aftermarket parts and accessories. The Specialty Vehicles segment employed approximately 1,100 employees and less than 100 contractors as of December 31, 2021. Innovation Through trade shows and motorhome rallies, we talk with a wide variety of motorhome owners to identify needs and bring our customers the latest technology and highest quality in our motorhome and specialty chassis. Recent innovations to our motorhome chassis include: custom tuned suspensions, independent front suspension, and passive steer tag axle that greatly improve ride, handling and maneuverability; adaptive cruise control, collision mitigation, electronic stability control and lane departure warning to improve safety; and automatic air leveling that adds convenience and functionality to top line motorhomes. We also support trade shows, OEM and dealer events to promote our truck body products and upfit services. We continue to expand our product portfolio and execute innovations in that segment. Products Motorhome Chassis We custom manufacture diesel chassis for luxury Class A motorhomes to the individual specifications of our motorhome OEM customers under the Spartan RV Chassis brand name. These specifications vary based on specific interior and exterior design specifications, gross vehicle weight, horsepower, and electrical needs of the motor home bodies to be attached to our chassis. Our motorhome chassis feature diesel engines of 360 to 605 horsepower and are used in motor homes ranging from 37 to 45 feet. Our motorhome chassis are separated into four models: the K1, K2, K3, and K4 series chassis. 6 Contract Manufacturing We provide final assembly services for Isuzu N-gas and F-series chassis for the North American market under the Builtmore Contract Manufacturing brand name. These class 3 and class 5 chassis are utilized in a variety of final configurations for light duty freight hauling and industrial uses. We have a cost effective, flexible and a highly skilled team of assembly workers and management, which, along with a dedication to lean manufacturing and continuous improvement, allow us to deliver superior quality and value in contract manufacturing. Service Truck Bodies We manufacture and assemble truck bodies for a variety of trades and vocations. Those body configurations include service bodies, stake bodies, contractor bodies, dump/landscape bodies and vocational dry freight bodies under the Royal Truck Body and DuraMag brand names. Specialty Upfit We design and install custom lighting and upfit solutions to meet the unique needs of the fleet industries including a range of specialty industries such as law enforcement, Department of Transportation, security companies, and providers of funeral, towing, and utility services. We provide durable, reliable, and high-quality product installations for any vehicle requiring specialty exterior and interior accessory upfits. Parts and Accessories We provide truck accessories under our Magnum brand and provide a full line of parts and accessories as well as maintenance and repair services for our motorhome and specialty chassis. Marketing We sell our Class A diesel motorhome chassis to OEMs for use in the manufacturing of premium motor homes. We actively participate in a variety of trade shows and motor home rallies that promote our products and aftermarket parts and services in addition to providing an opportunity to communicate with our end customers to showcase our latest innovations and identify needs and opportunities for continuous improvement of our chassis. We sell our service truck bodies through a commercial dealer network and through OEM pools, and we actively participate in a variety of regional and national trade shows that promote our products. We also provide vocation-specific equipment upfit services, which are marketed and sold under the Strobes-R-Us brand. Manufacturing Our motorhome chassis, service truck body, and specialty manufacturing operations employ the Shyft Production System, lean manufacturing, and continuous improvement to bring efficiency and cost reduction throughout our Specialty Vehicles segment. We engineer, manufacture, and assemble Spartan RV chassis, as well as other specialty vehicles on non-automated assembly lines. We assemble both the Isuzu N- and F-series chassis on high-volume assembly lines that utilize a variety of state-of-the-art automation and testing equipment. Our upfit facilities utilize teams of workers requiring minimal capital investment for efficient and timely installation of a variety of equipment. Competition The principal methods we use to build competitive advantages include short engineering reaction time, custom design capability, high product quality, superior customer service and quick delivery. We employ a solutions-based approach to offer specialized products tailored to customer needs across the spectrum of our products. We compete with companies that manufacture for similar markets, including some divisions of large diversified organizations that have total sales and financial resources exceeding ours. Our competition in the fleet vehicle market ranges from one large manufacturer in the walk-in van market to a number of smaller manufacturers in the truck body and equipment upfit markets. Our competitors in the specialty vehicle market are principally large multi-product line manufacturers of specialty and heavy-duty vehicles. In addition to established mature competitors, we also face competition from new market entrants including technology companies. 7 Suppliers We are dedicated to establishing long-term and mutually beneficial relationships with our suppliers. Through these relationships, we benefit from new innovations, higher quality, reduced lead times, smoother/faster manufacturing ramp-up of new vehicle introductions and lower total costs of doing business. Our accelerating growth and company-wide supply chain management initiatives allow us to benefit from economies of scale and maximize focus on a common vision. The single largest commodity directly utilized in production is aluminum, which we purchase under purchase agreements based on forecasted production requirements. To a lesser extent we are dependent upon suppliers of lumber, fiberglass and steel for our manufacturing. We have initiated long-term supplier agreements and are consolidating suppliers where beneficial to gain pricing advantages. There are several readily available sources for the majority of these raw materials. However, we are heavily dependent on specific component part products from a few single source vendors. We maintain a qualification, on-site inspection, assistance, and performance measurement system to control risks associated with reliance on suppliers. We normally do not carry inventories of such raw materials or components in excess of those reasonably required to meet production and shipping schedules. Material and component cost increases are passed on to our customers whenever possible. There can be no assurance that there will not be any supply issues over the long-term. In the assembly of certain of our vehicles, we use chassis supplied by third parties, and we generally do not purchase these chassis for inventory. For this market, we typically accept shipment of truck chassis owned by dealers or end users, for the purpose of installing and/or manufacturing our specialized commercial vehicles on such chassis, but from time to time we do purchase chassis for use in fulfilling certain customer orders. Research and Development Our success depends on our ability to innovate and add new products and features ahead of changing market demands and new regulatory requirements. Thus, we emphasize research and development and commit significant resources to develop and adapt new products and production techniques. Our engineering team is looking past “current practices” and “best practices” to deliver “next practices” for our customers and shareholders. Our engineering group's goal throughout the company: to deliver world class products and manufacturing processes regardless of product line or location. Results are accomplished with the appropriate blend of predictive analysis and physical property testing in our Research and Development facilities along with ride-and-drive analysis. Our efforts range from executing special orders for current production; to new production development for new functionality and product improvements; to exciting technologies that are new to the markets we serve, like vehicle electrification. Our engineering actions are driven by our firm commitment to safety, quality, delivery, and productivity. We spent $8.5 million, $4.4 million, and $4.9 million on research and development in 2021, 2020, and 2019, respectively. During 2021, Shyft Innovations, our dedicated mobility research and development team, unveiled plans to bring to market an all-electric purpose-built Class 3 chassis platform designed to serve a wide array of medium-duty truck markets, from last mile parcel delivery fleets to work trucks, passenger busses, recreational vehicles, and more. The EV-powered chassis will feature customizable length and wheelbase, making it well suited for a variety of vehicle types. The chassis’ modular design can accommodate multiple GVWR classifications, based on build out and usage. With this high degree of configurability, the all-electric chassis is adaptable to last mile delivery, work truck, mass transit, recreational vehicle, and other emerging EV markets. Product Warranties We provide limited warranties against assembly and construction defects. These warranties generally provide for the replacement or repair of defective parts or workmanship for specified periods, ranging from one year to twenty years, following the date of sale. With the use of validation testing, predictive analysis tools and engineering and design standards, we strive to continuously improve product quality and durability, and reduce our exposure to warranty claims. The end users also may receive limited warranties from suppliers of components that are incorporated into our chassis and vehicles. For more information concerning our product warranties, see "Note 11 – Commitments and Contingent Liabilities " of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 appearing in this Form 10-K. 8 Patents, Trademarks and Licenses We have 17 United States patents, which include rights to the design and structure of chassis and certain peripheral equipment and we have 18 pending patent applications in the United States. The existing patents will expire on various dates from 2025 through 2040 and utility patents are subject to payment of required maintenance fees. We also own or license 84 federal and international trademark and service mark registrations. The trademark and service mark registrations are generally renewable under applicable laws, subject to payment of required fees and the filing of affidavits of use. In addition, we have various pending trademark applications. Our products and services are identified by our trademarks and service marks. Our trademarks and service marks are valuable assets to both of our business segments. We are not aware of any infringing uses or any prior claims of ownership of our trademarks that could materially affect our business. It is our policy to pursue registration of our primary marks whenever possible and to vigorously defend our patents, trademarks and other proprietary marks against infringement or other threats to the extent practicable under applicable laws. Human Capital Management We believe people are the most critical component in our continued success, and we strive to attract high-performing talent. As of December 31, 2021, we employed approximately 3,800 employees and contractors. Approximately 13% of our total workforce consists of contractors, including all personnel at our Saltillo, Mexico operation. Compared to 2020, we decreased the percentage of contractors in our workforce by approximately 50%. This decrease reflected a strategic change in our talent acquisition strategy of direct hiring instead of contract relationships. Of our total workforce, 92% reside in the United States, with the remaining 8% in Mexico. Our production processes leverage a combination of skilled tradespeople and high-touch assemblers working in body, electrical, mechanical, paint, and assembly operations. As a team, our employees and contractors put the Company’s core values into action, while executing on key growth initiatives to maintain long-term sustainable growth. We strive to create a workplace of choice to attract, retain, and develop top talent to achieve our vision and deliver shareholder results. In our locations, we compete with many local companies for talent. We have implemented talent strategies and market competitive wages and benefits to support talent acquisition and retention. In addition to these actions, we have implemented employee surveys and focus groups that encourage our employees to share their opinions and feedback on the culture of our company. The results of the survey are analyzed and measured to learn how we can enhance and accelerate improvements in the attraction and retention in a difficult talent environment. We adhere to a philosophy that includes, among other things, commitments to create ongoing job opportunities, pay fair wages, and protect worker health and safety. Fundamental to these commitments are our Company’s core values of honesty and integrity, accountability, trust, and performance excellence. Management considers relations with the Company’s workforce to be positive. Compensation and Benefits We believe the structure of our compensation packages provides the appropriate incentives to attract, retain and motivate our employees. We provide base pay that is competitive and that aligns with employee positions, skill levels, experience and geographic location. In addition to base pay, we seek to reward employees with incentive awards, recognition programs, educational opportunities, paid time off, and equity awards for employees at certain roles. Diversity and Inclusion We value and advance the diversity and inclusion of the people with whom we work. We are committed to equal opportunity and are intolerant of discrimination and harassment. We work to maintain workplaces that are free from discrimination or harassment on the basis of race, sex, color, national or social origin, ethnicity, religion, age, disability, sexual orientation, gender identification or expression, political opinion or any other status protected by applicable law. The basis for recruitment, hiring, placement, development, training, compensation and advancement at the Company includes qualifications, performance, skills and experience. We do not tolerate disrespectful or inappropriate behavior, unfair treatment or retaliation of any kind. Harassment is not tolerated in the workplace and in any work-related circumstance outside the workplace. 9 COVID-19 Health Measures In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we implemented measures to help ensure the health, safety and security of our employees, while constantly monitoring the rapidly evolving situation and adapting our efforts and responses. We are diligently following guidance from authorities and health officials. This includes allowing remote work in certain circumstances, imposing travel restrictions and implementing safety measures for on-site employees including, but not limited to, the use of personal protective equipment as appropriate and in accordance with local laws and regulations. Customer Base We serve customers ranging from municipalities to OEMs to commercial customers and vehicle dealers throughout our product lines. Sales to our top 10 customers in 2021 accounted for 60.6% of our sales. Sales to customers that individually exceeded 10% of our consolidated sales for 2021, 2020 and 2019 are detailed in the chart below. We do have other significant customers which, if the relationship changes significantly, could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. We believe that we have developed strong relationships with our customers and continually work to develop new customers and markets. See related risk factors in Item 1A of this Form 10-K. Sales to customers outside the United States were $11.7 million, $9.5 million, and $21.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively, or 1.2%, 1.4%, and 2.8%, respectively, of sales for those years. Substantially all of our long-lived assets are located in the United States. Order Backlog Our order backlog by reportable segment is summarized in the following table (in thousands). Our FVS backlog increased by $437.9 million, or 103.9%, driven by new orders for walk-in vans. Our SV segment backlog increased by $47.0 million, or 82.3%, due to an increase in Class A diesel motorhome market demand and service body orders. While orders in the backlog are subject to modification, cancellation or rescheduling by customers, this has not been a major factor in the past. Although the backlog of unfilled orders is one of many indicators of market demand, several factors, such as chassis availability, changes in production rates, available capacity, new product introductions and competitive pricing actions, may affect actual sales. Accordingly, a comparison of backlog from period-to-period is not necessarily indicative of eventual actual shipments. Non-GAAP Financial Measure This report presents Adjusted EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization), which is a non-GAAP financial measure. This non-GAAP measure is calculated by excluding items that we believe to be infrequent or not indicative of our underlying operating performance, as well as certain non-cash expenses. We define Adjusted EBITDA as income from continuing operations before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, as adjusted to eliminate the impact of restructuring charges, acquisition related expenses and adjustments, non-cash stock-based compensation expenses, and other gains and losses not reflective of our ongoing operations. 10 We present the non-GAAP measure Adjusted EBITDA because we consider it to be an important supplemental measure of our performance. The presentation of Adjusted EBITDA enables investors to better understand our operations by removing items that we believe are not representative of our continuing operations and may distort our longer-term operating trends. We believe this measure to be useful to improve the comparability of our results from period to period and with our competitors, as well as to show ongoing results from operations distinct from items that are infrequent or not indicative of our continuing operating performance. We believe that presenting this non-GAAP measure is useful to investors because it permits investors to view performance using the same tools that management uses to budget, make operating and strategic decisions, and evaluate our historical performance. We believe that the presentation of this non-GAAP measure, when considered together with the corresponding GAAP financial measures and the reconciliations to that measure, provides investors with additional understanding of the factors and trends affecting our business than could be obtained in the absence of this disclosure. Our management uses Adjusted EBITDA to evaluate the performance of and allocate resources to our segments. Adjusted EBITDA is also used, along with other financial and non-financial measures, for purposes of determining annual incentive compensation for our management team and long-term incentive compensation for certain members of our management team. The following table reconciles Income from continuing operations to Adjusted EBITDA for the periods indicated. Available Information Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and other reports (and amendments thereto) filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act are available, free of charge, on our internet website ( www.TheShyftGroup.com ) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The SEC maintains an internet website (www.sec.gov ) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Information About our Executive Officers The executive officers of the Company, their business experience and their ages as of February 1, 2022, are as follows: 11 Name Position Business Experience Age Executive Officer Since Jonathan C. Douyard Chief Financial Officer Chief Financial Officer since March 2020. Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Fluke Corporation from June 2016 to February 2020. Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer, Commercial Systems & Services business unit, Sikorsky Aircraft (United Technologies) from September 2015 to May 2016. Director, Finance, Commercial Systems & Services business unit, Sikorsky Aircraft (United Technologies) from 2012 to 2015. Various financial leadership roles, General Electric subsidiaries from 2001 to 2012. 42 2020 Todd A. Heavin Chief Operating Officer Chief Operating Officer since June 2019. Management Consultant from August 2017 to May 2019. Division President, American Axle from April 2017 to August 2017. Division General Manager, Metaldyne Performance Group from 2014 to April 2017. 60 2019 Chad M. Heminover President Fleet Vehicles and Services President, Shyft Fleet Vehicles and Services since May 2018. Vice President of Operations and Business Development, Shyft Fleet Vehicles and Services from December 2017 through April 2018. Business Unit President, Taylor Corporation from 2014 through December 2017. 45 2018 Stephen K. Guillaume President Specialty Vehicles President, Shyft Specialty Vehicles since May 2015. Vice President of New Business Development and Joint Ventures from January 2015 to May 2015.Vice President and General Manager, Navistar Commercial Trucks from 2010 through 2014. 54 2015 Joshua A. Sherbin Chief Legal Officer, Chief Compliance Officer and Corporate Secretary Chief Legal Officer, Chief Compliance Officer and Corporate Secretary since May 2021. Senior Vice President, General Counsel, Chief Compliance Officer and Corporate Secretary, TriMas Corporation from March 2016 to May 2021. Vice President, General Counsel, Chief Compliance Officer and Corporate Secretary, TriMas Corporation from 2008 to March 2016. 59 2021 Item 1A.