 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. General Effective June 1, 2020, our corporate name has changed to The Shyft Group, Inc. (f/k/a Spartan Motors, Inc.). The new corporate name reflects the next phase of our business transformation with an increased focus on higher growth commercial, retail, and service specialty vehicle markets. The Shyft Group, Inc. was organized as a Michigan corporation on September 18, 1975, and is headquartered in Novi, Michigan. We are a niche market leader in specialty vehicle manufacturing and assembly for the commercial vehicle (including last-mile delivery, specialty service and vocation-specific upfit segments) and recreational vehicle industries. Our products include walk-in vans and truck bodies used in e-commerce/parcel delivery, upfit equipment used in the mobile retail and utility trades, service and vocational truck bodies, luxury Class A diesel motor home chassis and contract manufacturing and assembly services. We also supply replacement parts and offer repair, maintenance, field service and refurbishment services for the vehicles that we manufacture. Our operating activities are conducted through our wholly-owned operating subsidiary, The Shyft Group USA, Inc., with locations in Novi and Charlotte, Michigan; Bristol, Indiana; Waterville, Maine; Ephrata, Pennsylvania; North Charleston, South Carolina; Pompano Beach and West Palm Beach, Florida; Kansas City, Missouri; Montebello, Carson and McClellan Park, California; Mesa, Arizona; Dallas and Weatherford, Texas; and Saltillo, Mexico. Our vehicles, parts and services are sold to commercial users, original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), dealers, individual end users, and municipalities and other governmental entities. Our diversification across several sectors provides numerous opportunities while reducing overall risk as the various markets we serve tend to have different cyclicality. We have an innovative team focused on building lasting relationships with our customers by designing and delivering market leading specialty vehicles, vehicle components, and services. Additionally, our business structure is agile and able to quickly respond to market needs, take advantage of strategic opportunities when they arise and correctly size and scale operations to ensure stability and growth. Our expansion of equipment upfit services in our Fleet Vehicles and Services segment, and the growing opportunities that we have capitalized on in last mile delivery as a result of the rapidly changing e-commerce market, are excellent examples of our ability to generate growth and profitability by quickly fulfilling customer needs. We believe we can best carry out our long-term business plan and obtain optimal financial flexibility by using a combination of borrowings under our credit facilities, as well as internally or externally generated equity capital, as sources of expansion capital. Recent Developments On January 30, 2020, the World Health Organization (“WHO”) announced a global health emergency because of a new strain of coronavirus (“COVID-19”). On March 11, 2020, the WHO classified the COVID-19 outbreak as a pandemic, based on the rapid increase in exposure globally. The pandemic has had a significant impact on macroeconomic conditions. To limit the spread of COVID-19, governments have taken various actions including the issuance of stay-at-home orders and social distancing guidelines. While the Company’s plants continued to operate as essential businesses, starting March 23, 2020 certain of our manufacturing facilities were temporarily suspended or cut back on operating levels and shifts as a result of government orders. As of June 30, 2020, approximately 90% of our facilities were at full or modified production levels and as of September 30 and December 31, 2020, all of our facilities were at full or modified production levels. However, additional suspensions and cutbacks may occur as the impacts from COVID-19 and related responses continue to evolve within our global supply chain and customer base. The Company is taking a variety of measures to maintain operations with as minimal impact as possible to promote the safety and security of our associates, including increased frequency of cleaning and disinfecting of facilities, social distancing, remote working when possible, travel restrictions and limitations on visitor access to facilities. We took actions to align operations and spending across our business in response to uncertainty caused by the COVID-19 outbreak during 2020. This included actions that impacted the second and third quarter of 2020, such as temporary compensation reductions for executive management and the Board of Directors, furloughs of a portion of our workforce, freezing associate requisitions and minimizing capital expenditures to critical investments. The full impact of the COVID-19 outbreak continues to evolve as of the date of this filing. As such, it is uncertain as to the full magnitude that the pandemic will have on the Company’s financial condition, liquidity, and future results of operations. Management is actively monitoring the impact of the global situation on its financial condition, liquidity, operations, suppliers, industry, and workforce. Given the daily evolution of the COVID-19 outbreak and the global responses to curb its spread, the Company is not able to estimate the effects of the COVID-19 outbreak on its results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity for future periods. 26 On March 27, 2020, President Trump signed into law the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security Act (the “CARES Act”). The CARES Act, among other things, includes provisions relating to refundable payroll tax credits, deferment of employer side social security payments, net operating loss carryback periods, alternative minimum tax credit refunds, modifications to the net interest deduction limitations and technical corrections to tax depreciation methods for qualified improvement property. As a result, the Company recorded an income tax benefit of $2.6 million in the first quarter of 2020 and has also made provision to defer the employer side social security payments for the last three quarters of 2020, to be paid in two equal installment payments of $2.0 million each in 2021 and 2022. On October 1, 2020, the Company acquired substantially all of the assets and certain liabilities of F3 MFG Inc. through the Company’s subsidiary, The Shyft Group DuraMag LLC (“DuraMag”). DuraMag is a leading aluminum truck body and accessory manufacturer, and DuraMag operations include aluminum manufacturing, finishing, assembly, and installation of DuraMag contractor, service, and van bodies, as well as Magnum branded truck accessories including headache racks (also known as cab protection racks or rear racks). DuraMag operates out of Waterville, Maine and that location is expected to continue to serve as the business’ primary manufacturing and assembly facility for both product lines. The addition of DuraMag aluminum bodies to the Company's product offerings follows the Company’s 2019 acquisition of Royal Truck Body ("Royal"), a West Coast and Southwestern U.S. steel truck body maker. Combined, these acquisitions elevate the Company to a leading position as a national service body manufacturer. DuraMag is part of our Specialty Vehicle segment (f/k/a Specialty Chassis and Vehicles) and continues to go to market under the DuraMag and Magnum brands. On February 1, 2020, the Company completed its sale of the Emergency Response and Vehicle (“ERV”) business for $55.0 million in cash, subject to certain post-closing adjustments. In September 2020, the Company finalized the post-close net working capital adjustment and subsequently paid $7.5 million on October 1, 2020. The ERV business consisted of the emergency response cab-chassis and apparatus operations in Charlotte, Michigan, and the Spartan apparatus operations in Brandon, South Dakota; Snyder and Neligh, Nebraska; and Ephrata, Pennsylvania. The divestiture allows us to further focus on accelerating growth and profitability in our commercial, fleet, delivery and specialty vehicles markets. As a result of this divestiture, the ERV business is accounted for as a discontinued operation for all periods presented. See "Note 2 – Discontinued Operations " of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further discussion of this transaction. Executive Overview The following table shows our sales by market for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 as a percentage of total sales: We continue to seek out opportunities to grow the business, both organically and by acquisition, by expanding relationships with existing customers, seeking out new business wins, and pursuing acquisitions in a strategic fashion. 27 We believe we are well positioned to take advantage of long-term opportunities and continue our efforts to bring product innovations to each of the markets we serve. Some of our recent innovations and strategic developments include: ● The introduction of the Velocity F2, Class 2 walk-in van built on a Ford Transit chassis. The Velocity F2 combines nimbleness, comfort, and fuel efficiency with the cargo space, access, and load capacity similar to a traditional walk-in delivery van. The Velocity F2 gives parcel delivery fleets the flexibility they need to activate a large driver pool, service more customers, and maintain longer routes, consistent with increased demand. ● The introduction of the Velocity M3 walk-in cargo van which is built on a Mercedes-Benz Sprinter cab and chassis, blends the fuel efficiency, driver ergonomics, and safety provisions of a cargo van cab and chassis with the expansive cargo space of a traditional walk-in van. The Velocity M3 builds upon advancements from the Utilimaster Reach®, with a lighter body design, improved payload, better fuel efficiency, and maximized cargo space, punctuated with a game-changing automatic access system that opens, closes, and locks interior and exterior doors—without keys or manual effort—for unequaled ease and stop-by-stop efficiency gains. ● Our relationship with Motiv Power Systems, a leading producer of all-electric chassis for walk-in vans, box trucks, work trucks, buses and other specialty vehicles that provides us with access to Motiv’s EPIC™ all-electric chassis in manufacturing Class 4 – Class 6 walk-in vans. This relationship further demonstrates our ability to partner with any EV chassis or powertrain supplier. ● Our continued expansion into the equipment upfit market for vehicles used in the parcel delivery, trades and construction industries. This rapidly expanding market offers an opportunity to add value to current and new customers for our fleet vehicles and vehicles produced by other original equipment manufacturers. ● Production of electric vehicle (EV) demo units have made their way into customer testing for leading parcel delivery companies. The electrified, traditional walk-in vans will be built on a medium-duty chassis—an industry proven lightweight body design that is advantageous to an EV powertrain. With a gross vehicle weight rating of 19,500 pounds, 900 cubic feet of cargo space, and a payload capacity of 6,000 pounds, this new vehicle will be comparable in size and payload to standard internal combustion engine vans currently in production by Shyft’s Utilimaster brand. The EV power is expected to provide an initial range of up to 120 miles between charges—depending on use characteristics and conditions—and may be enhanced based on feedback from customer testing. ● The introduction of Royal Truck Body’s new Severe Duty body, built to fit General Motors’ medium duty truck class, which includes more standard features than any other service body on the market. With its Fortress five-point lock system, 10-gauge steel and Line-X’d box tops, 3/8″ tread plate steel floors, and more, this work truck is built to last and is ideal for contractors and business owners who put their work truck fleets to the test. ● The introduction of our refrigeration technology, which demonstrates our ability to apply the latest technical advancements with our unique understanding of last-mile delivery optimization. Utilimaster’s Work-Driven Design™ process provides best-in-class conversion solutions in walk-in vans, truck bodies, and cargo van vehicles. The refrigerated van is upfitted to optimally preserve cold cargo quality while offering customizations such as removable bulkheads and optional thermal curtains. The multi-temperature solution requires no additional fuel source, so it can serve a wide variety of categories from food and grocery to time and temperature sensitive healthcare deliveries. ● The introduction of the K4 605 chassis. The K4 605 is equipped with Spartan Connected Coach, a technology bundle featuring the new digital dash display and keyless push-button start. It also features Spartan’s Advanced Protection System, a collection of safety systems that includes collision mitigation with adaptive cruise control, electronic stability control, automatic traction control, Spartan Safe Haul, factory chassis-integrated air supply for tow vehicle braking systems, tire pressure monitoring system with integrated controls with Spartan Connected Coach’s digital dash display, Premier Steer steering assist system, woodgrain & leather SMART steering wheel with integrated radio controls and a Passive Steer Tag Axle, and Cummins Connected Diagnostics. ● The strength of our balance sheet and access to credit through our revolving line of credit. 28 The following section provides a narrative discussion about our financial condition and results of operations. Certain amounts in the narrative may not sum due to rounding. The comments should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes thereto appearing in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Results of Operations The discussion of our 2019 operating results compared to our 2018 operating results is included in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) of our 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed March 16, 2020 and is incorporated by reference into this MD&A. The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the components of our consolidated statements of operations, as a percentage of sales (percentages may not sum due to rounding): Sales Consolidated sales for the year ended December 31, 2020 decreased by $80.5 million, or 10.7% to $676.0 million from $756.5 million in 2019. Revenue was negatively impacted during 2020 by COVID-19 related production shut-downs due to chassis and component shortages. Sales in our FVS segment decreased by $85.4 million, due to a decrease of $91.4 million in pass through chassis revenue partially offset by an increase in vehicle sales of $6.0 million in 2020. Sales in our SV segment decreased by $0.5 million driven by lower sales of $35.1 million in motorhome chassis and other specialty chassis and vehicle sales, partially offset by sales attributable to business acquisitions of $34.6 million. Inter-segment eliminations decreased $5.3 million. These changes in sales are discussed more fully in the discussion of our segments below. Cost of Products Sold Cost of products sold decreased by $109.8 million, or 17.2%, to $529.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 from $639.5 million in 2019 primarily due to a $91.4 million decrease in pass through chassis material, $16.6 million due to product mix and $5.6 million due to reductions in supplier and other costs. These decreases were partially offset by increases of $3.8 million due to volume. As a percentage of sales, cost of products sold decreased to 78.4% in 2020, compared to 84.5% in 2019. Gross Profit Gross profit increased by $29.3 million, or 25.0%, to $146.3 million in 2020 from $117.0 million in 2019. The increase was due to favorable mix of $16.6 million, favorable volume of $7.1 million and productivity and cost reductions of $5.6 million. Gross margin increased to 21.6% in 2020 from 15.5% over the year ended in 2019 due to the items mentioned above. Operating Expenses Operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2020 increased by $28.0 million, or 40.4%, to $97.4 million from $69.4 million in 2019. Research and development expense decreased $0.5 million in 2020. Selling, general and administrative expense increased by $28.5 million, or 44.2 %, to $93.1 million in 2020 from $64.5 million in 2019. This increase was primarily due to $14.3 million in additional salaried associates, incentive compensation and increased severance costs in 2020 related to the realignment of the Company after the sale of the ERV business, $5.2 million for the write-down of an ERP system and $9.1 million associated with business acquisitions. 29 Other Income and Expense Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2020 decreased by $0.5 million, or 29.8%, to $1.3 million from $1.8 million in 2019. The decrease was due to the paydown of debt principal. Interest and other income was $0.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to interest and other income of $1.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. Income Tax Expense Income tax expense from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2020 was $9.9 million as compared to the prior year at $10.4 million. Our effective tax rate in 2020 was 20.5%, compared to 22.0% in 2019. The lower Income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to the prior year primarily reflects the favorable impact of certain provisions of the CARES Act upon the Income tax expense as computed based on current statutory income tax rates, partially offset by higher state income taxes at their statutory rates. Enacted on March 27, 2020, the CARES Act amended certain provisions of the tax code to allow the five-year carryback of tax basis net operating losses (“NOL”) incurred in the years 2018 through 2020. The closing of the sale of the ERV business during the first quarter of 2020 put the Company into a tax basis NOL position for the year as a result of the reversal of deferred tax assets that were recorded in 2019. Under the CARES Act, the Company will carry the NOL back to offset taxable income incurred in years prior to 2018 when the federal corporate income tax rate was 35%, as compared to the 21% tax rate at which the deferred tax assets were originally recorded. Based upon current accounting guidance, which requires that the impact of the tax law changes be recorded in continuing operations, the Company recorded a $2.6 million current period tax benefit in continuing operations resulting from the rate difference as a component of Income tax benefit in the first quarter of 2020. Income from Continuing Operations Income from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2020 increased by $1.5 million, or 4.1%, to $38.3 million compared to $36.8 million in 2019. On a diluted per share basis, income from continuing operations increased $0.02 to $1.05 in 2020 compared to $1.03 per share in 2019. Driving this increase were the factors noted above. Loss from Discontinued Operations, Net of Income Taxes Loss from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2020 decreased to $5.1 million compared to $49.2 million in 2019. The decrease of $44.1 million loss was primarily due to the 2019 impairment of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets of $13.9 million and the 2019 impairment of the ERV business held for sale of $39.2 million not repeated in 2020 combined with the divestiture of ERV on February 1, 2020 compared to a full year of operation in 2019. Our Segments This report presents Adjusted EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization), which is a non-GAAP financial measure. This non-GAAP measure is calculated by excluding items that we believe to be infrequent or not indicative of our underlying operating performance, as well as certain non-cash expenses. We define Adjusted EBITDA as income from continuing operations before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, as adjusted to eliminate the impact of restructuring charges, acquisition related expenses and adjustments, non-cash stock-based compensation expenses, and other gains and losses not reflective of our ongoing operations. We present the non-GAAP measure Adjusted EBITDA because we consider it to be an important supplemental measure of our performance. The presentation of Adjusted EBITDA enables investors to better understand our operations by removing items that we believe are not representative of our continuing operations and may distort our longer-term operating trends. We believe this measure to be useful to improve the comparability of our results from period to period and with our competitors, as well as to show ongoing results from operations distinct from items that are infrequent or not indicative of our continuing operating performance. We believe that presenting this non-GAAP measure is useful to investors because it permits investors to view performance using the same tools that management uses to budget, make operating and strategic decisions, and evaluate our historical performance. We believe that the presentation of this non-GAAP measure, when considered together with the corresponding GAAP financial measures and the reconciliations to that measure, provides investors with additional understanding of the factors and trends affecting our business than could be obtained in the absence of this disclosure. Our management uses Adjusted EBITDA to evaluate the performance of and allocate resources to our segments. Adjusted EBITDA is also used, along with other financial and non-financial measures, for purposes of determining annual incentive compensation for our management team and long-term incentive compensation for certain members of our management team. 30 The following table reconciles Income from continuing operations to Adjusted EBITDA for the periods indicated. Our FVS segment consists of our operations at our Bristol, Indiana; Charlotte, Michigan; Kansas City, Missouri; Ephrata, Pennsylvania; North Charleston, South Carolina; Pompano Beach and West Palm Beach, Florida; Montebello, California and Saltillo, Mexico locations. This segment focuses on designing and manufacturing walk-in vans for the parcel delivery, mobile retail, and trades and construction industries; the production of commercial truck bodies, supply of related aftermarket parts and services under the Utilimaster brand name. Our SV segment consists of our Charlotte, Michigan operations that engineer and manufacture motor home chassis, contract manufacturing, other specialty chassis and distribute related aftermarket parts and assemblies. In addition, beginning in September 2019 with the acquisition of Royal, the Specialty Vehicles segment includes operations in Carson and McClellan Park, California; Mesa, Arizona; and Dallas and Weatherford, Texas. Royal is a leading California-based designer, manufacturer and installer of service truck bodies and accessories. Beginning in October 2020 with our acquisition of DuraMag, the Specialty Vehicles segment includes operations in Waterville, Maine. DuraMag is a leading aluminum truck body and accessory manufacturer and its operations include aluminum manufacturing, finishing, assembly, and installation of DuraMag contractor, service, and van bodies, as well as Magnum branded truck accessories including headache racks. The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described, or referred to, in "Note 1 – Nature of Operations and Basis of Presentation. " Interest expense and Taxes on income are not included in the information utilized by the chief operating decision maker to assess segment performance and allocate resources, and accordingly, are excluded from the segment results presented below. Appropriate expense amounts are allocated to the two reportable segments and are included in their reported operating income or loss. For certain financial information related to each segment, see "Note 17 – Business Segments " of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Fleet Vehicles and Services 31 Sales in our FVS segment decreased by $85.4 million, or 14.8%, to $490.5 million in 2020 from $575.9 million in 2019. This decrease was driven by a $91.4 million decrease in pass-through chassis revenue and was partially offset by an increase of $6.0 million in vehicle sales mainly due to higher unit volumes. Adjusted EBITDA in our FVS segment was $85.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, an increase of $24.5 million compared to $60.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. Higher sales volumes in 2020 contributed $1.0 million to the overall increase while product mix contributed $20.6 million and productivity improvements and cost reductions generated $5.6 million. These increases were partially offset by $2.7 million of higher selling, general and administrative expenses. Order backlog for our FVS segment increased by $121.4 million, or 39.7%, to $427.3 million at December 31, 2020 compared to $305.9 million at December 31, 2019, driven by new orders for walk-in vans offset by the build out of the USPS contract that originated in 2017 and was completed in 2019. Our backlog enables visibility into future net sales which can normally range from two to twelve months depending on the product. This visibility allows us to more effectively plan and predict our sales and production activity. Specialty Vehicles Sales in our SV segment decreased by $0.5 million or 0.2%, to $185.5 million in 2020 compared to $185.9 million in 2019. This decrease was driven by a decrease of $35.1 million in motor home chassis and other specialty chassis and vehicle sales due to lower unit volumes. This decrease was partially offset by sales attributable to business acquisitions of $34.6 million. Adjusted EBITDA for our SV segment was $19.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, a decrease of $1.7 million compared to $20.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. This decrease was driven by $6.4 million attributable to volume in motor home chassis and other specialty vehicles and $2.8 million attributable to mix. This decrease was partially offset by $1.3 million from overhead reductions and $6.2 million from business acquisitions. Order backlog for our SV segment increased by $20.6 million, or 67.0%, to $51.3 million at December 31, 2020 compared to $30.7 million at December 31, 2019. This increase was due to a reduction in the Class A diesel motor home market demand and service body orders. Our backlog enables visibility into future net sales which can normally range from less than one month to twelve months depending on the product. This visibility allows us to more effectively plan and predict our sales and production activity. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Flows Our cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities, as reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows appearing in Item 8 of this Form 10-K, are summarized in the following table (in thousands): During 2020, cash and cash equivalents increased by $1.6 million to a balance of $21.0 million as of December 31, 2020. These funds, in addition to cash generated from future operations and available credit facilities, are expected to be sufficient to finance our foreseeable liquidity and capital needs, including potential future acquisitions. 32 Cash Flow from Operating Activities We generated $64.3 million of cash from operating activities during the year ended December 31, 2020, an increase of $30.1 million from $34.2 million of cash generated from operating activities in 2019. Cash flow from operating activities increased from 2019 due to a $41.8 million increase in net income net of non-cash charges and a $11.7 million decrease from changes in operating assets and liabilities. Cash Flow from Investing Activities We generated $14.9 million in investing activities during the year ended December 31, 2020, a $113.9 million increase compared to the $99.0 million utilized during the year ended December 31, 2019. This increase is mainly due to $47.5 million of proceeds from the sale of the ERV business in 2020 and $70.9 million of lower cash paid for business acquisition of $18.0 million in 2020 compared to our 2019 business acquisition of $88.9 million in 2019. Purchases of property, plant and equipment also increased $4.5 million to $14.5 million in 2020 from $10.0 million in 2019. Cash Flow from Financing Activities We utilized $77.6 million of cash through financing activities during the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to $56.7 million generated during the year ended December 31, 2019. This $134.3 million decrease is primarily due to a decrease in borrowings on long-term debt of $76.0 million, an increase in repayments on long-term debt of $50.8 million and an increase in net cash used in the purchase and retirement of common stock of $6.7 million. Contingent Liabilities Spartan-Gimaex joint venture In February 2015, the Company and Gimaex Holding, Inc. mutually agreed to begin discussions regarding the dissolution of the Spartan-Gimaex joint venture. In June 2015, the Company and Gimaex Holding, Inc. entered into court proceedings to determine the terms of the dissolution. In February 2017, by agreement of the parties, the court proceeding was dismissed with prejudice and the judge entered an order to this effect as the parties agreed to seek a dissolution plan on their own. In late 2019, the Company initiated additional court proceedings to dissolve and liquidate the joint venture. In April of 2020, as a result of a default judgment, the Company was appointed as liquidating trustee of the Gimaex joint venture, but no dissolution terms have been determined as of the date of this Form 10-K. Costs associated with the wind-down will be impacted by the final dissolution terms. In accordance with accounting guidance, the costs we have accrued so far represent the low end of the range of the estimated total charges that we believe we may incur related to the wind-down. While we are unable to determine the final cost of the wind-down with certainty at this time, we may incur additional charges, depending on the final terms of the dissolution. Such charges are not expected to be material to our future operating results. EPA Information Request In May 2020, the Company received a letter from the United States Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") requesting certain information as part of an EPA investigation regarding a potential failure to affix emissions labels on vehicles to determine the Company's compliance with applicable laws and regulations. This information request pertains to chassis, vocational vehicles, and vehicles that the Company manufactured or imported into the U.S. between January 1, 2017 to the date the Company received the request in May 2020. The Company responded to the EPA's request and furnished the requested materials in the third quarter of 2020. An estimate of possible penalties or loss, if any, cannot be made at this time. Debt On August 8, 2018, we entered into a Credit Agreement (the "Credit Agreement") by and among us and certain of our subsidiaries as borrowers, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association ("Wells Fargo"), as administrative agent, and the lenders party thereto consisting of Wells Fargo, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and PNC Bank National Association (the "Lenders"). Subsequently, the Credit Agreement was amended on May 14, 2019, September 9, 2019 and September 25, 2019 and certain of our other subsidiaries executed guaranties guarantying the borrowers' obligations under the Credit Agreement. Concurrent with the close of the sale of the ERV business and effective January 31, 2020, the Credit Agreement was further amended by a fourth amendment, which released certain of our subsidiaries that were sold as part of the ERV business. The substantive business terms of the Credit Agreement remain in place and were not changed by the fourth amendment. 33 As a result, at December 31, 2020, under the Credit Agreement, as amended, we may borrow up to $175.0 million from the Lenders under a secured revolving credit facility which matures August 8, 2023. We may also request an increase in the facility of up to $50.0 million in the aggregate, subject to customary conditions. The credit facility is also available for the issuance of letters of credit of up to $20.0 million and swing line loans of up to $30.0 million subject to certain limitations and restrictions. This revolving credit facility carries an interest rate of either (i) the highest of prime rate, the federal funds effective rate from time to time plus 0.5%, or the one month adjusted LIBOR plus 1.0%; or (ii) adjusted LIBOR, in each case plus a margin based upon our ratio of debt to earnings from time to time. The applicable borrowing rate including margin was 1.44% (or one-month LIBOR plus 1.25%) at December 31, 2020. The credit facility is secured by security interests in, and liens on, all assets of the borrowers and guarantors, other than real property and certain other excluded assets. At December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, we had outstanding letters of credit totaling $0.5 million related to our workers' compensation insurance. Under the terms of our Credit Agreement, available borrowings (exclusive of outstanding borrowings) totaled $125.8 million and $60.5 million at December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, respectively. The Credit Agreement requires us to maintain certain financial ratios and other financial covenants; prohibits us from incurring additional indebtedness; limits certain acquisitions, investments, advances or loans; limits our ability to pay dividends in certain circumstances; and restricts substantial asset sales, all subject to certain exceptions and baskets. At December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, we were in compliance with all covenants in our Credit Agreement. In the year ended December 31, 2020 the Company paid down $65.0 million of long-term debt, net of borrowings. Equity Securities On April 28, 2016, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 1.0 million additional shares of our common stock in open market transactions. We repurchased a total of 300,000; 101,006; and 90,000 shares of our common stock during the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. If we were to repurchase the remaining 0.5 million shares of stock under the repurchase program, it would cost us $17.4 million based on the closing price of our stock on March 1, 2021. We believe that we have sufficient resources to fund any potential stock buyback in which we may engage. Dividends We paid dividends on our outstanding common shares in 2020, 2019 and 2018 as shown in the table below. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a material current or future effect on our financial condition, cash flows, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. 34 Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments Our future contractual obligations for agreements, including agreements to purchase materials in the normal course of business, are summarized below. (1) Debt includes line of credit revolver estimated interest payments and payments on finance leases. The interest payments on the related variable rate debt were calculated using the effective interest rate of 1.44% at December 31, 2020. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The following discussion of critical accounting policies and estimates is intended to supplement "Note 1 – Nature of Operations and Basis of Presentation " of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. These policies were selected because they are broadly applicable within our operating units and they involve additional management judgment due to the sensitivity of the methods, assumptions and estimates necessary in determining the related statement of income, asset and/or liability amounts. Revenue Recognition Essentially all of our revenue is generated through contracts with our customers. We may recognize revenue over time or at a point in time when or as obligations under the terms of a contract with our customer are satisfied, depending on the terms and features of the contract and the products supplied. Our contracts generally do not have any significant variable consideration. The collectability of consideration on the contract is reasonably assured before revenue is recognized. On certain vehicles, payment may be received in advance of us satisfying our performance obligations. Such payments are recorded in Deposits from customers on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The corresponding performance obligations are generally satisfied within one year of the contract inception. We have elected to utilize the practical expedient to recognize the incremental costs of obtaining a contract as an expense when incurred because the amortization period for the prepaid costs that would have otherwise been deferred and amortized is one year or less. We use an observable price to allocate the stand-alone selling price to separate performance obligations within a contract or a cost-plus margin approach when an observable price is not available. The estimated costs to fulfill our base warranties are recognized as expense when the products are sold. Revenue for parts sales for all segments is recognized at the time that control and risk of ownership has passed to the customer, which is generally, when the ordered part is shipped to the customer. Historical return rates on parts sales have been immaterial. Accordingly, no return reserve has been recorded. Instead, returns are recognized as a reduction of revenue at the time that they are received. Revenue for upfit and field service contracts and walk-in vans and truck bodies built on a chassis owned and controlled by the customer is recognized over time, as equipment is installed in the customer’s vehicle, repairs and enhancements are made to the customer’s vehicles, or as the vehicles are built. For certain of our vehicles and chassis, we sell separately priced service contracts that provide roadside assistance or extend certain warranty coverage beyond our base warranty agreements. These separately priced contracts range from one to six years from the date of the shipment of the related vehicle or chassis. We receive payment with the shipment of the related vehicle or at the inception of the extended service contract, if later, and recognize revenue over the coverage term of the agreement, generally on a straight-line basis, which approximates the pattern of costs expected to be incurred in satisfying the obligations under the contract. 35 Business Combinations When acquiring other businesses, we recognize identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their acquisition date estimated fair values, and separately from any goodwill that may be required to be recognized. Goodwill, when recognizable, is measured as the excess amount of any consideration transferred, which is measured at fair value, over the acquisition date fair values of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Amounts recorded in a business combination may change during the measurement period, which is a period not to exceed one year from the date of acquisition, as additional information about conditions existing at the acquisition date becomes available. Accounting for such acquisitions requires us to make significant assumptions and estimates and, although we believe any estimates and assumptions we make are reasonable and appropriate at the time they are made, unanticipated events and circumstances may arise that affect their accuracy, which may cause actual results to differ from those estimated by us. When necessary, we will adjust the values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed against the goodwill or acquisition gain, as initially recorded, for a period of up to one year after the acquisition date. Costs incurred to effect an acquisition, such as legal, accounting, valuation or other third-party costs, as well as internal general and administrative costs incurred are charged to expense in the periods incurred. Accounts Receivable We maintain an allowance for customer accounts that reduces receivables to amounts that are expected to be collected. In estimating the allowance for doubtful accounts consistent with it reflecting related lifetime expected credit losses, management considers relevant information about past events, current conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts that affect the collectability of financial assets. Please see "Note 1 – Nature of Operations and Basis of Presentation " in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in Item 8 of this Form 10-K and Appendix A included in this Form 10-K for further details and historical view of our allowance for doubtful accounts balance. Goodwill and Other Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets In accordance with authoritative guidance on goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets, such assets are tested for impairment at least annually, and written down when and to the extent impaired. We perform our annual impairment test for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets as of October 1 of each year, or more frequently if an event occurs or conditions change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the asset below its carrying value. As of October 1, 2020 the most recent annual goodwill impairment assessment date, we had goodwill at our Fleet Vehicles and Services and Specialty Vehicles segments. Three reporting units were determined for goodwill impairment testing: Fleet Vehicles and Services, Specialty Vehicles, and Service Truck Bodies, which is a part of the Specialty Vehicles segment. We first assess qualitative factors including, but not limited to, macroeconomic conditions, industry conditions, the competitive environment, changes in the market for our products and current and forecasted financial performance to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If we determine that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is greater than its carrying amount, we are not required to calculate the fair value of a reporting unit. We have the option to bypass this qualitative assessment and proceed to a quantitative goodwill impairment assessment. If we elect to bypass the qualitative assessment, or if after completing the assessment it is determined to be more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, we perform an impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. The fair value of the reporting unit is determined by estimating the future cash flows of the reporting unit to which the goodwill relates, and then discounting the future cash flows at a market-participant-derived weighted-average cost of capital (“WACC”). In determining the estimated future cash flows, we consider current and projected future levels of income based on our plans for that business; business trends, prospects and market and economic conditions; and market-participant considerations. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is considered to not be impaired. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to the excess, up to the value of the goodwill. We evaluate the recoverability of our indefinite lived intangible assets, which, as of October 1, 2020, consisted of our Utilimaster and Royal trade names, by comparing the estimated fair value of the trade names with their carrying values. We estimate the fair value of our trade names based on estimates of future royalty payments that are avoided through our ownership of the trade name, discounted to their present value. In determining the estimated fair value of the trade names, we consider current and projected future levels of revenue based on our plans for Utilimaster and Royal branded products, business trends, prospects and market and economic conditions. 36 Significant judgments inherent in these analyses include assumptions about appropriate sales growth rates, WACC and the amount of expected future net cash flows. The judgments and assumptions used in the estimate of fair value are generally consistent with the projections and assumptions that are used in current operating plans. Such assumptions are subject to change as a result of changing economic and competitive conditions. The determination of fair value is highly sensitive to differences between estimated and actual cash flows and changes in the related discount rate used to evaluate the fair value of the reporting units and trade name. In 2020, we qualitatively assessed goodwill assigned to the Fleet Vehicles and Services and Specialty Vehicles reporting units and performed quantitative assessment on goodwill assigned to the Service Truck Bodies reporting unit. Our qualitative assessment of the Fleet Vehicles and Services and Specialty Vehicles reporting units found no indicators of impairment. The estimated fair values of our Service Truck Bodies reporting unit exceeded its carrying value as of October 1, 2020, the most recent annual assessment date. See “Note 6 – Goodwill and Intangible Assets ” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further details on our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets. Warranties Our policy is to record a provision for the estimated cost of warranty-related claims at the time of the sale, and periodically adjust the warranty liability to reflect actual experience. The amount of warranty liability accrued reflects actual historical warranty cost, which is accumulated on specific identifiable units. From that point, there is a projection of the expected future cost of honoring our obligations under the warranty agreements. Historically, the cost of fulfilling our warranty obligations has principally involved replacement parts and labor for field retrofit campaigns and recalls, which increase the reserve. Our estimates are based on historical experience, the number of units involved, and the extent of features and components included in product models. See "Note 11 – Commitments and Contingent Liabilities " in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further information regarding warranties. Provision for Income Taxes We account for income taxes under a method that requires deferred income tax assets and liabilities to be recognized using enacted tax rates for the effect of temporary differences between the book and tax bases of recorded assets and liabilities. Authoritative guidance also requires deferred income tax assets, which include state tax credit carryforwards, operating loss carryforwards and deductible temporary differences, be reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred income tax assets will not be realized. We evaluate the likelihood of realizing our deferred income tax assets by assessing our valuation allowance and by adjusting the amount of such allowance, if necessary. The factors used to assess the likelihood of realization include our forecast of future taxable income, the projected reversal of temporary differences and available tax planning strategies that could be implemented to realize the net deferred income tax assets. We recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities. The determination is based on the technical merits of the position and presumes that each uncertain tax position will be examined by the relevant taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. Although management believes the estimates are reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final outcome of these matters will not be different than what is reflected in the historical income tax provisions and accruals. Interest and penalties attributable to income taxes are recorded as a component of income taxes. New and Pending Accounting Policies See "Note 1 – Nature of Operations and Basis of Presentation " in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. 37 Effect of Inflation Inflation affects us in two principal ways. First, our revolving credit agreement is generally tied to the prime and LIBOR interest rates so that increases in those interest rates would be translated into additional interest expense. Second, general inflation impacts prices paid for labor, parts and supplies. Whenever possible, we attempt to cover increased costs of production and capital by adjusting the prices of our products. However, we generally do not attempt to negotiate inflation-based price adjustment provisions into our contracts. Since backlog fulfillment times can be as long as twelve months, we have limited ability to pass on cost increases to our customers on a short-term basis. In addition, the markets we serve are competitive in nature, and competition limits our ability to pass through cost increases in many cases. We strive to minimize the effect of inflation through cost reductions and improved productivity. Item 7A.