 ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview We design, develop, manufacture, sell and lease high-performance fully electric vehicles and energy generation and storage systems, and offer services related to our products. We generally sell our products directly to customers, including through our website and retail locations. We also continue to grow our customer-facing infrastructure through a global network of vehicle service centers, Mobile Service technicians, body shops, Supercharger stations and Destination Chargers to accelerate the widespread adoption of our products. We emphasize performance, attractive styling and the safety of our users and workforce in the design and manufacture of our products and are continuing to develop full self-driving technology for improved safety. We also strive to lower the cost of ownership for our customers through continuous efforts to reduce manufacturing costs and by offering financial and other services tailored to our products. Our mission to accelerate the world’s transition to sustainable energy, engineering expertise, vertically integrated business model and focus on user experience differentiate us from other companies. Segment Information We operate as two reportable segments: (i) automotive and (ii) energy generation and storage. The automotive segment includes the design, development, manufacturing, sales and leasing of electric vehicles as well as sales of automotive regulatory credits. Additionally, the automotive segment is also comprised of services and other, which includes non-warranty after-sales vehicle services, sales of used vehicles, retail merchandise, sales by our acquired subsidiaries to third party customers and vehicle insurance revenue. The energy generation and storage segment includes the design, manufacture, installation, sales and leasing of solar energy generation and energy storage products and related services and sales of solar energy systems incentives. Our Products and Services Automotive Model 3 Model 3 is a four-door mid-size sedan that we designed for manufacturability with a base price for mass-market appeal. We currently manufacture Model 3 at the Fremont Factory and at Gigafactory Shanghai. Model Y Model Y is a compact sport utility vehicle (“SUV”) built on the Model 3 platform with seating for up to seven adults. We currently manufacture Model Y at the Fremont Factory and at Gigafactory Shanghai. Model S and Model X Model S is a four-door full-size sedan and Model X is a mid-size SUV with seating for up to seven adults. Model S and Model X feature the highest performance characteristics and longest ranges that we offer in a sedan and SUV, respectively, and we manufacture both models at the Fremont Factory. In 2021, we began delivering new versions of the Model S and Model X, which offer higher performance and range. Future Consumer and Commercial Electric Vehicles We have also announced several planned electric vehicles to address additional vehicle markets, including specialized consumer electric vehicles in Cybertruck and the new Tesla Roadster and a commercial electric vehicle in Tesla Semi. We plan to continue leveraging developments in our proprietary Full Self-Driving (“FSD”), battery cell and other technologies. Energy Generation and Storage Energy Storage Products Powerwall and Megapack are our lithium-ion battery energy storage products. Powerwall is designed to store energy at a home or small commercial facility. Megapack is an energy storage solution for commercial, industrial, utility and energy generation customers, multiple of which may be grouped together to form larger installations of gigawatt hours (“GWh”) or greater capacity. We also continue to develop software capabilities for remotely controlling and dispatching our energy storage systems across a wide range of markets and applications, including through our real-time energy control and optimization platforms. 4 Solar Energy Offerings We sell retrofit solar energy systems to customers and channel partners and also make them available through power purchase agreement (“PPA”) arrangements. We purchase most of the components for our retrofit solar energy systems from multiple sources to ensure competitive pricing and adequate supply. We also design and manufacture certain components for our solar energy products. We sell our Solar Roof, which combines premium glass roof tiles with energy generation, directly to customers, as well as through channel customers. We continue to improve our installation capability and efficiency, including through collaboration with real estate developers and builders on new homes. Technology Automotive Battery and Powertrain Our core vehicle technology competencies include powertrain engineering and manufacturing and our ability to design vehicles that utilize the unique advantages of an electric powertrain. We have designed our proprietary powertrain systems to be adaptable, efficient, reliable and cost-effective while withstanding the rigors of an automotive environment. We offer dual motor powertrain vehicles, which use two electric motors to maximize traction and performance in an all-wheel drive configuration, as well as vehicle powertrain technology featuring three electric motors for further increased performance in certain versions of Model S and Model X. Among other things, we maintain extensive testing and R&D capabilities for battery cells, packs and systems, and have built an expansive body of knowledge on lithium-ion cell chemistry types and performance characteristics. In order to enable a greater supply of cells for our products with higher energy density at lower costs, we are currently using our expertise to develop a new proprietary lithium-ion battery cell and improved manufacturing processes. Vehicle Control and Infotainment Software The performance and safety systems of our vehicles and their battery packs require sophisticated control software. Control systems in our vehicles optimize performance, customize vehicle behavior, manage charging and control all infotainment functions. We develop almost all of this software, including most of the user interfaces, internally and update our vehicles’ software regularly through over-the-air updates. Self-Driving Development We have expertise in developing technologies, systems and software to enable self-driving vehicles using primarily vision-based sensors. Our FSD Computer runs our neural networks in our vehicles, and we are also developing additional computer hardware to better enable the massive amounts of field data captured by our vehicles to continually train and improve these neural networks for real-world performance. Currently, we offer in our vehicles certain advanced driver assist systems under our Autopilot and FSD options. Although at present the driver is ultimately responsible for controlling the vehicle, our systems provide safety and convenience functionality that relieves drivers of the most tedious and potentially dangerous aspects of road travel much like the system that airplane pilots use, when conditions permit. As with other vehicle systems, we improve these functions in our vehicles over time through over-the-air updates. We intend to establish in the future an autonomous Tesla ride-hailing network, which we expect would also allow us to access a new customer base even as modes of transportation evolve. Energy Generation and Storage Energy Storage Products We leverage many of the component-level technologies from our vehicles in our energy storage products. By taking a modular approach to the design of battery systems, we can optimize manufacturing capacity of our energy storage products. Additionally, our expertise in power electronics enables our battery systems to interconnect with electricity grids while providing fast-acting systems for power injection and absorption. We have also developed software to remotely control and dispatch our energy storage systems. Solar Energy Systems We have engineered Solar Roof over numerous iterations to combine aesthetic appeal and durability with power generation. The efficiency of our solar energy products is aided by our own solar inverter, which also incorporates our power electronics technologies. We designed both products to integrate with Powerwall. 5 Design and Engineering Automotive We have established significant in-house capabilities in the design and test engineering of electric vehicles and their components and systems. Our team has core competencies in computer aided design as well as durability, strength and crash test simulations, which reduces the product development time of new models. Additionally, our team has expertise in selecting and working with a range of materials for our vehicles to balance performance, cost and durability in ways that are best suited for our vehicles’ target demographics and utility. We have also used our capabilities to achieve complex engineering feats in stamping, casting and thermal systems, and are currently developing designs that integrate batteries directly with vehicle body structures without separate battery packs to optimize manufacturability, weight, range and cost characteristics. We are also expanding our manufacturing operations globally while taking action to localize our vehicle designs and production for particular markets, including country-specific market demands and factory optimizations for local workforces. As we increase our capabilities, particularly in the areas of automation, die-making and line-building, we are also making strides in the simulations modeling these capabilities prior to construction. Energy Generation and Storage Our expertise in electrical, mechanical, civil and software engineering allows us to design and manufacture our energy generation and storage products and components. We also employ our design and engineering expertise to customize solutions including our energy storage products, solar energy systems and/or Solar Roof for customers to meet their specific needs. We have developed software that simplifies and expedites the design process, as well as mounting hardware that facilitates solar panel installation. Sales and Marketing Historically, we have been able to generate significant media coverage of our company and our products, and we believe we will continue to do so. Such media coverage and word of mouth are the current primary drivers of our sales leads and have helped us achieve sales without traditional advertising and at relatively low marketing costs. Automotive Direct Sales Our vehicle sales channels currently include our website and an international network of company-owned stores. In some jurisdictions, we also have galleries to educate and inform customers about our products, but such locations do not actually transact in the sale of vehicles. We believe this infrastructure enables us to better control costs of inventory, manage warranty service and pricing, educate consumers about electric vehicles, maintain and strengthen the Tesla brand and obtain rapid customer feedback. We reevaluate our sales strategy both globally and at a location-by-location level from time to time to optimize our current sales channels. Sales of vehicles in the automobile industry tend to be cyclical in many markets, which may expose us to volatility from time to time. Used Vehicle Sales Our used vehicle business supports new vehicle sales by integrating the trade-in of a customer’s existing Tesla or non-Tesla vehicle with the sale of a new or used Tesla vehicle. The Tesla and non-Tesla vehicles we acquire as trade-ins are subsequently remarketed, either directly by us or through third parties. We also remarket used Tesla vehicles acquired from other sources including lease returns. Public Charging We have a growing global network of Tesla Superchargers, which are our industrial grade, high-speed vehicle chargers. Where possible, we co-locate Superchargers with our solar and energy storage systems to reduce costs and promote renewable power. Supercharger stations are typically placed along well-traveled routes and in and around dense city centers to allow vehicle owners the ability to enjoy quick, reliable and ubiquitous charging with convenient, minimal stops. Use of the Supercharger network either requires payment of a fee or is free under certain sales programs. We also work with a wide variety of hospitality, retail and public destinations, as well as businesses with commuting employees, to offer additional charging options for our customers. These Destination Charging and workplace locations deploy Tesla Wall Connectors to provide charging to Tesla vehicle owners who patronize or are employed at their businesses. We also work with single-family homeowners and multi-family residential entities to deploy home charging solutions. 6 In-App Upgrades As our vehicles are capable of being updated remotely over-the-air, our customers may purchase additional paid options and features through the Tesla app or through the in-vehicle user interface. We expect that this functionality will also allow us to offer certain options and features on a subscription basis in the future. Energy Generation and Storage We market and sell our solar and energy storage products to residential, commercial and industrial customers and utilities through a variety of channels. We emphasize simplicity, standardization and accessibility to make it easy and cost-effective for customers to adopt clean energy, while reducing our customer acquisition costs. In the U.S., we offer residential solar and energy storage products directly through our website, stores and galleries, as well as through our network of channel partners. Outside of the U.S., we use our international sales organization and a network of channel partners to market and sell these products for the residential market. We also sell Powerwall directly to utilities. In the case of products sold to utilities or channel partners, such partners typically sell the product to residential customers and manage the installation in customer homes. We sell our commercial and utility-scale energy storage systems to customers through our U.S. and international sales organization and our channel partner network. In certain jurisdictions, we also sell installed solar energy systems (with or without energy storage) to commercial customers through PPA transactions. Service and Warranty Automotive Service We provide service for our electric vehicles at our company-owned service locations and through Tesla Mobile Service technicians who perform work remotely at customers’ homes or other locations. Performing vehicle service ourselves provides us with the capability to identify problems and implement solutions and improvements faster, and optimize logistics and inventory better, than traditional automobile manufacturers and their dealer networks. The connectivity of our vehicles also allows us to diagnose and remedy many problems remotely and proactively. Vehicle Limited Warranties and Extended Service Plans We provide a manufacturer’s limited warranty on all new and used Tesla vehicles we sell, which may include separate limited warranties on certain components, specific types of damage or battery capacity retention. We also currently offer extended service plans that provide coverage beyond the new vehicle limited warranties for certain models in specified regions. Energy Generation and Storage We provide service and repairs to our energy product customers, including under warranty where applicable. We generally provide manufacturer’s limited warranties with our energy storage product and offer certain extended limited warranties that are available at the time of purchase of the system. If we install a system, we also provide certain limited warranties on our installation workmanship. As part of our energy storage system contracts, we may provide the customer with performance guarantees that commit that the underlying system will meet or exceed the minimum energy performance requirements specified in the contract. For retrofit solar energy systems, we provide separate limited warranties for workmanship and against roof leaks, and for Solar Roof, we also provide limited warranties for defects and weatherization. For components not manufactured by us, we generally pass-through the applicable manufacturers’ warranties. As part of our solar energy system contracts, we may provide the customer with performance guarantees that commit that the underlying system will meet or exceed the minimum energy generation requirements specified in the contract. Financial Services Automotive Purchase Financing and Leases We offer leasing and/or loan financing arrangements for our vehicles in certain jurisdictions in North America, Europe and Asia ourselves and through various financial institutions. Under certain of such programs, we have provided resale value guarantees or buyback guarantees that may obligate us to repurchase the subject vehicles at pre-determined values. 7 Insurance In August 2019, we launched an insurance product designed for our customers in California. In 2021, we launched our insurance product using real-time driving behavior in select states, which offers rates that are often better than other alternatives and promotes safer driving. Our insurance products are currently available in Arizona, California, Illinois, Ohio and Texas and we plan to expand the markets in which we offer insurance products, as part of our ongoing effort to decrease the total cost of ownership for our customers. Energy Generation and Storage We currently offer certain loan and PPA options to residential or commercial customers who pair energy storage systems with solar energy systems. We offer certain financing options to our solar customers, which enable the customer to purchase and own a solar energy system, Solar Roof or integrated solar and Powerwall system. Our solar PPAs, offered to commercial customers, charges a fee per kilowatt-hour based on the amount of electricity produced by our solar energy systems. Manufacturing Manufacturing Facilities in the Bay Area, California We manufacture and test our vehicles at our manufacturing facilities in the Bay Area in California, including the Fremont Factory and other local manufacturing facilities. We also manufacture and develop certain parts and components that are critical to our intellectual property and quality standards, such as Model S and Model X battery packs and our proprietary lithium-ion battery cells, at these locations. Gigafactory Nevada near Reno, Nevada Our battery material, cell, module and battery pack production for Model 3, Model Y and our energy products are manufactured in one location at Gigafactory Nevada. In addition, we manufacture vehicle drive units and energy storage components there. Gigafactory Nevada allows us to access high volumes of lithium-ion battery cells manufactured by our partner Panasonic there while achieving a significant reduction in the cost of our battery packs. We continue to invest in Gigafactory Nevada to achieve additional output there. Gigafactory New York in Buffalo, New York We use Gigafactory New York for the development and production of our Solar Roof and other solar products and components, energy storage components and Supercharger components and for other functions. Gigafactory Shanghai in China We established Gigafactory Shanghai to increase the affordability of our vehicles for customers in local markets by reducing transportation and manufacturing costs and eliminating the impact of unfavorable tariffs. We continue to increase the degree of localized procurement and manufacturing there. Gigafactory Shanghai is representative of our plan to iteratively improve our manufacturing operations as we establish new factories, as we implemented the learnings from our Model 3 and Model Y ramp at the Fremont Factory to commence and ramp our production at Gigafactory Shanghai quickly and cost-effectively. Other Manufacturing Generally, we continue to expand production capacity at our existing facilities. We also intend to further increase cost-competitiveness in our significant markets by strategically adding local manufacturing, including at Gigafactory Berlin in Germany and Gigafactory Texas in Austin, Texas, which will begin production in 2022. Supply Chain Our products use thousands of purchased parts that are sourced from hundreds of suppliers across the world. We have developed close relationships with vendors of key parts such as battery cells, electronics and complex vehicle assemblies. Certain components purchased from these suppliers are shared or are similar across many product lines, allowing us to take advantage of pricing efficiencies from economies of scale. As is the case for most automotive companies, most of our procured components and systems are sourced from single suppliers. Where multiple sources are available for certain key components, we work to qualify multiple suppliers for them where it is sensible to do so in order to minimize production risks owing to disruptions in their supply. We also mitigate risk by maintaining safety stock for key parts and assemblies and die banks for components with lengthy procurement lead times. 8 Our products use various raw materials including aluminum, steel, cobalt, lithium, nickel and copper. Pricing for these materials is governed by market conditions and may fluctuate due to various factors outside of our control, such as supply and demand and market speculation. We strive to execute long-term supply contracts for such materials at competitive pricing when feasible, and we currently believe that we have adequate access to raw materials supplies in order to meet the needs of our operations. Governmental Programs, Incentives and Regulations Globally, both the operation of our business by us and the ownership of our products by our customers are impacted by various government programs, incentives and other arrangements. Our business and products are also subject to numerous governmental regulations that vary among jurisdictions. Programs and Incentives California Alternative Energy and Advanced Transportation Financing Authority Tax Incentives We have agreements with the California Alternative Energy and Advanced Transportation Financing Authority that provide multi-year sales tax exclusions on purchases of manufacturing equipment that will be used for specific purposes, including the expansion and ongoing development of electric vehicles and powertrain production in California, thus reducing our cost basis in the related assets in our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Gigafactory Nevada—Nevada Tax Incentives In connection with the construction of Gigafactory Nevada, we entered into agreements with the State of Nevada and Storey County in Nevada that provide abatements for specified taxes, discounts to the base tariff energy rates and transferable tax credits in consideration of capital investment and hiring targets that were met at Gigafactory Nevada. These incentives are available until June 2024 or June 2034, depending on the incentive and primarily offset related costs in our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Gigafactory New York—New York State Investment and Lease We have a lease through the Research Foundation for the State University of New York (the “SUNY Foundation”) with respect to Gigafactory New York. Under the lease and a related research and development agreement, we are continuing to designate further buildouts at the facility. We are required to comply with certain covenants, including hiring and cumulative investment targets. This incentive offsets the related lease costs of the facility in our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As we temporarily suspended most of our manufacturing operations at Gigafactory New York pursuant to a New York State executive order issued in March 2020 as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we were granted a deferral of our obligation to be compliant with our applicable targets through December 31, 2021 in an amendment memorialized in August 2021. As of December 31, 2021, we are in excess of such targets relating to investments and personnel in the State of New York and Buffalo. Gigafactory Shanghai—Land Use Rights and Economic Benefits We have an agreement with the local government of Shanghai for land use rights at Gigafactory Shanghai. Under the terms of the arrangement, we are required to meet a cumulative capital expenditure target and an annual tax revenue target starting at the end of 2023. In addition, the Shanghai government has granted to our Gigafactory Shanghai subsidiary certain incentives to be used in connection with eligible capital investments at Gigafactory Shanghai. These incentives offset the related costs of our facilities in our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Finally, the Shanghai government granted a beneficial corporate income tax rate of 15% to certain eligible enterprises, which is lower than the 25% statutory corporate income tax rate in China. Our Gigafactory Shanghai subsidiary was granted this lower rate for 2019 through 2023. This lower tax rate reduces the income tax provision in our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Gigafactory Texas – Tax Incentives In connection with the construction of Gigafactory Texas, we entered into a 20-year agreement with Travis County in Texas pursuant to which we would receive grant funding equal to 70-80% of property taxes paid by us to Travis County and a separate 10-year agreement with the Del Valle Independent School District in Texas pursuant to which a portion of the taxable value of our property would be capped at a specified amount, in each case subject to our meeting certain minimum economic development metrics through our construction and operations at Gigafactory Texas. These incentives will offset the related costs in our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 9 Automotive Regulatory Credits We earn tradable credits in the operation of our business under various regulations related to zero-emission vehicles (“ZEVs”), greenhouse gas, fuel economy and clean fuel. We sell these credits to other regulated entities who can use the credits to comply with emission standards and other regulatory requirements. Sales of these credits are recognized within automotive regulatory credits revenue in our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Energy Storage System Incentives and Policies While the regulatory regime for energy storage projects is still under development, there are various policies, incentives and financial mechanisms at the federal, state and local levels that support the adoption of energy storage. For example, energy storage systems that are charged using solar energy may be eligible for the solar energy-related U.S. federal tax credits described below. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”) has also taken steps to enable the participation of energy storage in wholesale energy markets. In addition, California and a number of other states have adopted procurement targets for energy storage, and behind-the-meter energy storage systems qualify for funding under the California Self Generation Incentive Program. Our customers primarily benefit directly under these programs. In certain instances our customers may transfer such credits to us as contract consideration. In such transactions they are included as a component of energy generation and storage revenues in our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Solar Energy System Incentives and Policies U.S. federal, state and local governments have established various policies, incentives and financial mechanisms to reduce the cost of solar energy and to accelerate the adoption of solar energy. These incentives include tax credits, cash grants, tax abatements and rebates. In particular, Sections 48 and 25D of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code currently provide a tax credit of 26% of qualified commercial or residential expenditures for solar energy systems, which may be claimed by our customers for systems they purchase, or by us for arrangements where we own the systems. These tax credits are primarily for the direct benefit of our customers and are currently scheduled to decline and/or expire in 2023 and beyond. Regulations Vehicle Safety and Testing In the U.S., our vehicles are subject to regulation by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (“NHTSA”), including all applicable Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards (“FMVSS”) and the NHTSA bumper standard. Numerous FMVSS apply to our vehicles, such as crash-worthiness and occupant protection requirements. While our current vehicles fully comply and we expect that our vehicles in the future will fully comply with all applicable FMVSS with limited or no exemptions, FMVSS are subject to change from time to time. As a manufacturer, we must self-certify that our vehicles meet all applicable FMVSS and the NHTSA bumper standard, or otherwise are exempt, before the vehicles may be imported or sold in the U.S. We are also required to comply with other federal laws administered by NHTSA, including the CAFE standards, Theft Prevention Act requirements, labeling requirements and other information provided to customers in writing, Early Warning Reporting requirements regarding warranty claims, field reports, death and injury reports and foreign recalls and additional requirements for cooperating with compliance and safety investigations and recall reporting. The U.S. Automobile Information and Disclosure Act also requires manufacturers of motor vehicles to disclose certain information regarding the manufacturer’s suggested retail price, optional equipment and pricing. In addition, federal law requires inclusion of fuel economy ratings, as determined by the U.S. Department of Transportation and the Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”), and New Car Assessment Program ratings as determined by NHTSA, if available. Our vehicles sold outside of the U.S. are subject to similar foreign compliance, safety, environmental and other regulations. Many of those regulations are different from those applicable in the U.S. and may require redesign and/or retesting. Some of those regulations impact or prevent the rollout of new vehicle features. Additionally, the European Union established new rules regarding additional compliance oversight that commenced in 2020. Self-Driving Vehicles Generally, laws pertaining to self-driving vehicles are evolving globally, and in some cases may create restrictions on features that we develop. While there are currently no federal U.S. regulations specifically pertaining to self-driving vehicles or self-driving equipment, NHTSA has published recommended guidelines on self-driving vehicles, and retains the authority to investigate and/or take action on the safety of any vehicle, equipment or features operating on public roads. Certain U.S. states also have legal restrictions on the operation, registration or licensure of self-driving vehicles, and many other states are considering them. This regulatory patchwork increases the legal complexity with respect to self-driving vehicles in the U.S. 10 In markets that follow the regulations of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe, some requirements restrict the design of advanced driver-assistance or self-driving features, which can compromise or prevent their use entirely. Other applicable laws, both current and proposed, may hinder the path and timeline to introducing self-driving vehicles for sale and use in the markets where they apply. Other key markets, including China, continue to consider self-driving regulation. Any implemented regulations may differ materially from those in the U.S. and Europe, which may further increase the legal complexity of self-driving vehicles and limit or prevent certain features. Automobile Manufacturer and Dealer Regulation In the U.S., state laws regulate the manufacture, distribution, sale and service of automobiles, and generally require motor vehicle manufacturers and dealers to be licensed in order to sell vehicles directly to residents. Certain states have asserted that the laws in such states do not permit automobile manufacturers to be licensed as dealers or to act in the capacity of a dealer, or that they otherwise restrict a manufacturer’s ability to deliver or service vehicles. To sell vehicles to residents of states where we are not licensed as a dealer, we generally conduct the sale out of the state. In certain such states, we have opened “galleries” that serve an educational purpose and where the title transfer may not occur. Some automobile dealer trade associations have both challenged the legality of our operations in court and used administrative and legislative processes to attempt to prohibit or limit our ability to operate existing stores or expand to new locations. Certain dealer associations have also actively lobbied state licensing agencies and legislators to interpret existing laws or enact new laws in ways not favorable to our ownership and operation of our own retail and service locations. We expect such challenges to continue, and we intend to actively fight any such efforts. Battery Safety and Testing Our battery packs are subject to various U.S. and international regulations that govern transport of “dangerous goods,” defined to include lithium-ion batteries, which may present a risk in transportation. We conduct testing to demonstrate our compliance with such regulations. We use lithium-ion cells in our high voltage battery packs in our vehicles and energy storage products. The use, storage and disposal of our battery packs are regulated under existing laws and are the subject of ongoing regulatory changes that may add additional requirements in the future. We have agreements with third party battery recycling companies to recycle our battery packs and we are also piloting our own recycling technology. Solar Energy—General We are subject to certain state and federal regulations applicable to solar and battery storage providers and sellers of electricity. To operate our systems, we enter into standard interconnection agreements with applicable utilities. Sales of electricity and non-sale equipment leases by third parties, such as our leases and PPAs, have faced regulatory challenges in some states and jurisdictions. Solar Energy—Net Metering Most states in the U.S. make net energy metering, or net metering, available to solar customers. Net metering typically allows solar customers to interconnect their solar energy systems to the utility grid and offset their utility electricity purchases by receiving a bill credit for excess energy generated by their solar energy system that is exported to the grid. In certain jurisdictions, regulators or utilities have reduced or eliminated the benefit available under net metering or have proposed to do so. Competition Automotive The worldwide automotive market is highly competitive and we expect it will become even more competitive in the future as we introduce additional vehicles in a broader cross-section of the passenger and commercial vehicle market and expand our vehicles’ capabilities. 11 We believe that our vehicles compete in the market both based on their traditional segment classification as well as based on their propulsion technology. For example, Model S and Model X compete primarily with premium sedans and premium SUVs and Model 3 and Model Y compete with small to medium-sized sedans and compact SUVs, which are extremely competitive markets. Competing products typically include internal combustion vehicles from more established automobile manufacturers; however, many established and new automobile manufacturers have entered or have announced plans to enter the market for electric and other alternative fuel vehicles. Overall, we believe these announcements and vehicle introductions, including the introduction of electric vehicles into rental car company fleets, promote the development of the electric vehicle market by highlighting the attractiveness of electric vehicles relative to the internal combustion vehicle. Many major automobile manufacturers have electric vehicles available today in major markets including the U.S., China and Europe, and other current and prospective automobile manufacturers are also developing electric vehicles. In addition, several manufacturers offer hybrid vehicles, including plug-in versions. We also believe that there is increasing competition for our vehicle offerings as a platform for delivering self-driving technologies, charging solutions and other features and services, and we expect to compete in this developing market through continued progress on our Autopilot, FSD and neural network capabilities, Supercharger network and our infotainment offerings. Energy Generation and Storage Energy Storage Systems The market for energy storage products is also highly competitive, and both established and emerging companies have introduced products that are similar to our product portfolio or that are alternatives to the elements of our systems. We compete with these companies based on price, energy density and efficiency. We believe that the specifications and features of our products, our strong brand and the modular, scalable nature of our energy storage products give us a competitive advantage in our markets. Solar Energy Systems The primary competitors to our solar energy business are the traditional local utility companies that supply energy to our potential customers. We compete with these traditional utility companies primarily based on price and the ease by which customers can switch to electricity generated by our solar energy systems. We also compete with solar energy companies that provide products and services similar to ours. Many solar energy companies only install solar energy systems, while others only provide financing for these installations. We believe we have a significant expansion opportunity with our offerings and that the regulatory environment is increasingly conducive to the adoption of renewable energy systems. Intellectual Property We place a strong emphasis on our innovative approach and proprietary designs which bring intrinsic value and uniqueness to our product portfolio. As part of our business, we seek to protect the underlying intellectual property rights of these innovations and designs such as with respect to patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and other measures, including through employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements and other contractual arrangements. For example, we place a high priority on obtaining patents to provide the broadest and strongest possible protection to enable our freedom to operate our innovations and designs within our products and technologies in the electric vehicle market as well as to protect and defend our product portfolio. We have also adopted a patent policy in which we irrevocably pledged that we will not initiate a lawsuit against any party for infringing our patents through activity relating to electric vehicles or related equipment for so long as such party is acting in good faith. We made this pledge in order to encourage the advancement of a common, rapidly-evolving platform for electric vehicles, thereby benefiting ourselves, other companies making electric vehicles and the world. Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) and Human Capital Resources ESG The very purpose of Tesla's existence is to accelerate the world's transition to sustainable energy. We believe the world cannot reduce carbon emissions without addressing both energy generation and consumption, and we are designing and manufacturing a complete energy and transportation ecosystem to achieve this goal. As we expand, we are building each new factory to be more efficient and sustainably designed than the previous one, including with respect to waste reduction and water usage, and we are focused on reducing the carbon footprint of our supply chain. We are committed to only sourcing responsibly produced materials, and our suppliers are required to provide evidence of management systems that ensure social, environmental and sustainability best practices in their own operations, as well as to demonstrate a commitment to responsible sourcing into their supply chains. We have a zero-tolerance policy when it comes to child or forced labor and human trafficking by our suppliers and we look to the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development Due Diligence Guidelines to inform our process and use feedback from our internal and external stakeholders to find ways to continually improve. We are also driving safety in our own factories by focusing on worker engagement. As our production volumes increase, our incidents per vehicle continue to drop. 12 We believe that sound corporate governance is critical to helping us achieve our goals, including with respect to ESG. We continue to evolve a governance framework that exercises appropriate oversight of responsibilities at all levels throughout the company and manages its affairs consistent with high principles of business ethics. Our ESG Sustainability Council is made up of leaders from across our company, and regularly presents to our Board of Directors, which oversees our ESG impacts, initiatives and priorities. Human Capital Resources As of December 31, 2021, our full-time count for our and our subsidiaries’ employees worldwide was 99,290. To date, we have not experienced any work stoppages as a result of labor disputes, and we consider our relationship with our employees to be good. Our key human capital objectives in managing our business include attracting, developing and retaining top talent while integrating diversity, equity and inclusion principles and practices into our core values. We want to attract a pool of diverse and exceptional candidates and support their career growth once they become employees. Our efforts begin at the entry level with development, apprenticeship and internship programs in local high schools, community colleges and four-year colleges. In addition, we seek to hire based on talent rather than solely on educational pedigree, and have provided thousands of job openings, including in our local communities, for capable workers from various backgrounds to learn valuable skills in critical operations such as in manufacturing, vehicle service and energy product installation. We also emphasize in our evaluation and career development efforts internal mobility opportunities for employees to drive professional development. Our goal is a long-term, upward-bound career at Tesla for every employee, which we believe also drives our retention efforts. Our ability to retain our talented workforce is correlated to our compensation practices and culture of open communication. We provide a highly competitive wage that meets or exceeds that of comparable manufacturing roles, even before equity and benefits are factored in. In addition, the majority of our employees have the opportunity to receive additional Tesla equity each year based on their performance. We continue to review salary and wages against benchmarks and adjust to ensure wages are competitive, and have instituted a robust process for ensuring pay equity across our organization. In addition, we provide a comprehensive range of benefits options, including no-cost paycheck contributions for medical, dental and vision plan options for employees and family members. Our employees have the right to freely discuss their wages, benefits and terms and conditions of employment and to raise complaints internally and externally. We encourage our employees to bring any concerns or complaints they have to any member of management, and any employee who is subjected to, a witness or has knowledge of any conduct that violates Tesla policies is asked to immediately report the conduct. Our employees can report concerns to their supervisor or human resources partner, as well as an integrity line to report concerns anonymously and without fear of retaliation that is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Concerns are reviewed in accordance with established protocols by investigators with expertise, who also periodically review for trends and outcomes for remediation and appropriate controls. Tesla provides employee training on workplace conduct at least annually and in 2021 implemented a campaign to re-highlight different reporting mechanisms available to employees. We also believe that our ability to retain our workforce is dependent on our ability to foster an environment that is sustainably safe, respectful, fair and inclusive of everyone and promotes diversity, equity and inclusion inside and outside of our business. From our outreach to Historically Black Colleges and Universities and Hispanic Serving Institutions to sponsoring employee resource groups across numerous locations, including Asian Pacific Islanders at Tesla, Black at Tesla, Intersectionality, Latinos at Tesla, LGBTQ at Tesla, Veterans at Tesla and Women in Tesla, we engage these networks as key business resources and sources of actionable feedback. We are also working on diversity efforts in our supply chain to expand our outreach and support to small- and large-scale suppliers from underrepresented communities to emphasize this culture with our own employees. Available Information We file or furnish periodic reports and amendments thereto, including our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. In addition, the SEC maintains a website ( www.sec.gov ) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. Our website is located at www.tesla.com, and our reports, amendments thereto, proxy statements and other information are also made available, free of charge, on our investor relations website at ir.tesla.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such information with the SEC. The information posted on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 13 ITEM 1A.