
Verification Statement
 
  Page 2 
 
 
 Criteria  against whic h verificati on conducted:  
• The Climate Registry G eneral Reporting Protocol  (Scope 1 and Scope 2)  
• WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse G as Protocol Corporate Val ue Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Repor ting 
Standard (Scope 3)  
• ADM Methodology   
Reference Standard :  
• ISO 14064-3 Se cond edition 2019- 04: Greenhouse gases -- Part 3: Specification wi th gui dance for the 
verification and validation of greenhouse gas state ment s. 
Level of Assurance a nd Qual ifications : 
• Limited  
• This verification used a materiality threshold of ±5% for aggregate errors in sampled data for each of the 
above indic ators  
GHG Verification Methodology:  
Evidence-gathering procedures included but were not  limited to:   
• Interviews  with r elevant personnel of  ADM;  
• Review of documentary evidence produced by ADM ;  
• Review of ADM ’s data and information systems and methodology for collection, aggregation, analysis and 
review of information used to determine GHG em issions at ADM  Headquarters  (Remote) and during virtual 
site visits to  Marshall,  Minnesota and Mankato, Minnesota; and  
• Au dit of sample of data used by  ADM  to determine GHG emissions.  
Verification  Opinion:  
Based on the process and procedures conducted, there is no evidence that the GHG emissi ons stateme nt shown 
above:  
• is not materially correct and is not a fair representation of the GHG emission s data and information; and  
• has not been prepared in accordance with The Climate Registry  General Report ing P rotocol (Scope 1 and 
Scope 2 GHG emissions)  and the  WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Val ue Chain (Scope 
3) Accounting and Repor ting Standard  
It is our opinion t hat ADM  has established appropriate systems for the collection, aggregation and analysis of 
quantitative data for determination of these GHG emissions for t he stated period and bou ndaries.  
Statement of independence, impartiality and competence 
Apex  is an indepe ndent professional serv ices company that specializes in Hea lth, Safety, Social and Enviro nmental 
management services including as surance with over 3 0 years history in providin g these services.  
No member of the verification team  has a business relationship with ADM , its Director s or Managers beyond that 
required of this assignment.  W e conducted this verification independently and to our knowledge there has been no 
confl ict of interest. 
Apex has implemented a Code of Ethics across the business to maintain high ethical standards among staff in their 
day-to-day business activities.   
 
  Page 3 
 
 
 
The verification team has  extensive experienc e in conducting assurance over environmental, social, ethical and  
health and safety information, systems and process es, has over 20 years combined experience in this field and an 
excellent understanding of Apex’s sta ndard methodology for the verification of greenhouse gas emiss ions data.  
Attestation:  
 
 
John A.  Rohde , Lead Verifier     Trevor Donaghu, Technical Revi ewer  
Practice L ead       Program Manager  
Apex  Companies , LLC                    Apex Companies, LLC  
Lakewood, Colorado       Pleasant Hill, California  
May 2 , 2022 
 
This verification opinion declaration, including the opinion expressed herein, is provided to Archer Daniels Midland Company and is 
solely for the benefit of Ar cher Daniels Midland Company in accordance with the terms of our agreement. We consent to the release 
of this statement by you to CDP in order to satisfy the terms of CDP disclosure requirements but withou t accepting or assuming any 
responsibility or liability on our part to CDP or to any other party who may have access to this statement. 
 
 
  
VERIFICATION OPINION DECLARATION  
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 
 
To: The Stakeholders of Archer Daniels  Midland Company 
 
Apex  Companies , LLC (Apex ) was engaged to conduct an independent verification of the greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions reported by Archer Daniels  Midlan d Company (A DM) for the period stated below.  This verification opinion 
declaration applies to the related information included within the scope of work described below.   
The determination of the GHG emissions is the sole responsibility of ADM . ADM  is responsi ble for  the preparati on 
and f air pr esentation of  the GHG  statement  in accordance with the criteria. Apex’ s sole responsibility was to provide 
independent verification on the accuracy of the GHG emissions reported, and on the underlying systems and 
processes used to coll ect, analyze and review the informat ion. Apex is responsible for expressing an opinion on the 
GHG statement  based on the verification.  Verification activi ties applied in a limit ed level of assurance verification  are 
less extensive in nature, timing  and ext ent than in a re asonable lev el of assurance verification.   
Boundaries of the reporting company GHG emissions covered by the verification:  
• Operational Control  
• Worldwide  
• Exclusions include a small number (<10) of leased office spaces  
Types of GHGs : CO 2, N2O, CH 4, HFCs, PFCs, SF 6,  
GHG Emiss ions Stat ement: 
• Scope 1: 13, 700,000 me tric tons of CO 2 equivalent  
• Scope 2 (Location -Based) : 2,300,000 metric tons of CO 2 equivalent  
• Biogenic Emissions: 4 ,000,000 metric tons CO2  
• Biogenic Carbon Dioxide Sequ estered : 444,000 metri c tons C O2 
• Scope 3:  
o Category 1 Purchased Goods and S ervices (Corn, wheat, 8 oilseeds ) – 35,100,000 metric tons 
of CO 2 equivalent  
o Category 3 – Fuel and Energy -related Activities - 1,900,000 metric tons of CO 2 equivalent  
o Category 4 Upstream Transportation and Distribution (Intermare and some field aggregation  
for commodities in Category 1 ) - 3,600,000 metric tons of CO 2 equivalent  
o Category 5 – Waste Generated in Op erations - 200,000 metric tons of CO 2 equivalent  
o Category 10 – Processing of Sold Goods  - 26,000,000 metric tons of CO 2 equivalent  
Data and information supporting the Scope 1 and Sc ope 2 GHG emiss ions statement  were generally histor ical in 
nature. 
Dat
a and information supporting the Scope 3 GHG emissions statement were in some instances estimated.  
Period covered by GHG emissions verification : 
• January 1, 2021 to Decembe r 31, 2021 
 
Overview Governance Climate Integrity People and Communities Appendix53