As part of our continuous efforts to support the needs of today’s 
consumers to prepare, serve and enjoy delicious snacks and 
meals, our culinary teams are developing new and innovative 
recipes. Our internal dietitians and nutritionists have established 
criteria to help consumers identify recipes which fit within relevant 
guidelines for healthy eating. 
United States: We relaunched our recipe website My Food and 
Family, formerly known as Kraft Recipes in March 2019. The new 
site offers busy consumers shoppable recipes and lifestyle content 
to take advantage of Kraft Heinz’s broad portfolio of brands and 
products. We plan to continue expanding this library of on-trend 
recipes, time-saving kitchen tips and tricks, and partnerships 
with unique voices across the culinary world. Our Healthy Living 
recipe collection features recipes that meet nutritional guidelines 
established by our registered dietitians. We have committed to no 
less than 20 percent of our recipes being Healthy Living, with 24 
percent currently meeting these guidelines. 
44Healthy Living Recipes 
Europe:  The Kraft Heinz Nutrition Recipe Guidelines provide 
guidance in developing nutritious and balanced meals using 
Kraft Heinz products, while minimizing less desirable ingredients 
and promoting responsible portion sizes. 
Canada:  Kraft’s  What’s Cooking website offers a personalized 
experience, allowing consumers to find recipes tailored to their 
specific lifestyle, nutrition and dietary needs. With a vast array of 
over 13,000 recipes, detailed lifestyle articles, how-to videos and 
healthy living content, Kraft’s  What’s Cooking is committed to 
keeping Canadians up to date on credible, useful food content 
aligned with current trends. 
New Zealand:  Our Wattie’s Food in a Minute  recipe collection 
provides consumers with an extensive and growing range of quick 
meal recipe options and tips across a variety of diet preferences. 
These recipes and tips span plant-based, vegetarian, vegan and 
many other lifestyle choices, such as Healthy Pick. Our Healthy Pick 
recipes meet our guidelines for saturated fat, sugar, sodium and 
vegetable portions