35Global Nutrition Guidelines  
 
In 2018, we achieved our commitment to expand our nutrition 
guidelines globally. The Kraft Heinz regional nutrition guidelines 
for the U.S., Europe, Australia and New Zealand were used as 
a starting point to set our Global Nutrition Guidelines . The new 
Global Nutrition Guidelines identify nutrient targets for our 
products, with a focus on limiting sugar, sodium, saturated fat and 
calories. In addition, we continue to focus on increasing positive 
nutrients and offering alternative ingredient choices. 
As part of this process, the Kraft Heinz Global Nutrition Group 
identified upper limits for calories, sodium, sugar and saturated fat 
across the 49 categories that represent our total global portfolio. 
Products that meet these nutrition guidelines align with globally 
– recognized dietary recommendations from the World Health 
Organization, the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering 
and Medicine, and the European Food Safety Authority. 
For some of the key products in our portfolio that we have 
developed these guiderails for, we have been assessed by credible 
third-party professionals or engaged with objective industry 
consultants. 
In 2020, Kraft Heinz announced that we are committed to:
• Continuing to apply our Global Nutrition Targets to all of our 
products*, which include upper limits on calories, sodium, sugar 
and saturated fat. 
• Publishing our Global Nutrition Targets, which can now 
be found on our website here, and targeting changes in our 
product portfolio. 
Product Health & Nutrition
Through 2020 we have achieved approximately 75 percent 
compliance with our Global Nutrition Targets (GNTs). This was due 
to significant shifts in our products sales mix throughout 2020. 
However, we continue to innovate and renovate our existing 
product portfolio favorably toward our GNTs and delivering tasty 
products, as well as make progress on increased measurable data 
coverage globally, all while we continue to further standardize and 
verify our metrics with leading external benchmarks