505050An example of our progress on water 
stewardship is our Wagga Wagga site in 
Australia. The Wagga Wagga facility is a 
producer of canned meat products for 
domestic and export markets. The site uses 
retorts; a pressurized machine to sterilize 
food products commercially. The sterilization 
process is very water-intensive but is a 
critical step to ensure food quality and safety. Wagga Wagga 
initially operated 12 retorts throughout the facility that ranged in 
age and efficiency. In 2020, the facility removed six less water-
efficient retorts and continued production using the remaining six 
more modern retorts that contained a water recycling function. As 
a result, the project successfully reduced the site’s water intensity 
(water use per ton production) by 75 percent. As a water-stressed 
site, Wagga Wagga’s lower reliance on water results in diverting 
less water away from natural sources. 
Another great example of progress on water conservation is our 
Otradnoe facility in Russia. The facility  produces many products, 
including a wide selection of Heinz sauces for the EMEA region. 
In 2020, the facility completed a process optimization project 
where site engineers successfully removed two intermediate 
containers from a key production line, streamlining production 
and line washing procedures. As a result, each wash cycle saves 
the equivalent of enough water for approximately two months for 
the average urban Russian family’s use. Coupled with other water-
saving initiatives at the facility, we achieved an overall reduction of 
nine percent at Otradnoe compared to our 2019 baseline year. We also continue to work with 
partners like Nalco Water (an 
Ecolab Company), in order to help 
identify areas of opportunity in our 
manufacturing processes to optimize water use. For example, we 
were able to save approximately 5,475,000 gallons of water per 
year from improvements to our cooling systems at our Massilon, 
Iowa site. Nalco helped us identify and implement real time 
monitoring and control which allowed the plant to run the cooling 
system at significantly increased efficiencies. In 2020, through 
our partnership with Ecolab, we identified 32 projects across our 
manufacturing sites with a combined annual water savings of more 
than 94 million gallons. Once implemented, every year these 32 
projects will save the equivalent of approximately enough water 
to fill 142 Olympic-sized swimming pools (at six feet seven inches 
deep). Connected end-to-end as one continuous pool, this would 
stretch over 4.3 miles. Moreover, the water conservation projects 
ranged from water reuse, leak repair and cleaning efficiency, to 
various optimization projects, with a total annual cost reduction of 
approximately $2.6 million. 
 
Instead of utilizing intermediate containers (pictured left) to hold product in between 
two stages of the production process, site engineers installed a pump that linked the 
fed product directly to the next stage, reducing water and cleaning chemical usage.Water Use & Conservation  (cont.) 
We recognize the significant role we can play as a 
global food manufacturer in our own operations 
and through our supply chain in being good water 
stewards. In 2020, Kraft Heinz became an official 
and proud signatory to the CEO Water Mandate . As 
we continue to assess and improve in this critical 
area to our business, and in collaboration with 
various stakeholders throughout our value chain, we 
look forward to continue to report out on our water 
stewardship initiatives and benchmarks now and in 
the future