ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP
HEALTHY LIVING & COMMUNITY SUPPORT
APPENDIX
INTRODUCTION
RESPONSIBLE SOURCINGSustainably Sourced Palm Oil
Kraft Heinz recognizes that unsustainable palm oil production 
is one of the largest drivers of deforestation globally, and as an 
organization we have taken active steps to address these issues in 
our supply chain. We (including through legacy Heinz prior to 2015) 
have been a proud member of the Roundtable on Sustainable 
Palm Oil (RSPO) since 2007, a multi-stakeholder nonprofit aimed 
at uniting all aspects of the palm industry to minimize the negative 
impact of palm oil cultivation. In 2017, Kraft Heinz became a 
founding member of The North American Sustainable Palm 
Oil Network (NASPON). NASPON is an independent group 
of associations, civil society organizations, consumer goods 
manufacturers, retailers, and palm oil traders and producers, who 
are committed to increasing the use of certified sustainable palm 
oil (CSPO) in North America to 100 percent. NASPON works 
collaboratively to find industry-wide solutions to secure certified 
sustainable palm oil in our products while adhering to human 
rights and labor laws, and while respecting local communities and 
biodiversity throughout the palm oil supply chain. 
In 2017, Kraft Heinz in partnership with The Rainforest Alliance 
carried out an initial deforestation baseline risk assessment of our 
global (tier 1) direct supply chain and guide the development of 
our Global Sustainable Palm Oil Policy . The implemented Policy 
incorporates environmental and social principles and highlights 
Kraft Heinz’s commitment to sourcing palm oil that is 100 percent 
certified sustainable and traceable to the mill. 
The baseline risk assessment of our direct global palm oil supply 
chain allowed us to identify potential deforestation risks, as well 
as peatland/biodiversity hotspot encroachment concerns. Direct 
suppliers were asked to provide information on the country of 
origin of their palm raw materials, as well as their sustainable/ 
responsible sourcing policies. Details on their sustainable palm oil objectives were also shared, as well as their progress on those 
targets. Suppliers were also asked to provide traceability data for all 
palm oil mills in their supply chain. The mills’ geographical location 
in conjunction with a global satellite mapping tool incorporated 
potential deforestation and other environmentally related risks 
in the mill sourcing regions. The information obtained from 
this exercise allowed us to engage our suppliers to discuss any 
identified risks and develop action plans to manage them