67POULTRY PORK CATTLE
Turkeys Broiler Chickens Laying Hens Pigs Dairy Beef
KEY WELFARE ISSUES AND STATUS
• 100% of our U.S. supply does not have  
snoods removed 
• 100% of our U.S. supply does not have  
toes clipped
• 100% of our U.S. supply has annual  
animal welfare audits at the plant• 100% of our U.S. supply is cage-free
• 100% of our U.S. supply has not been  
beak trimmed
• 100% of our U.S. supply has not had  
wings trimmed• 66% of our global supply is cage-free  
or free-range
• We do not purchase shell eggs
• 100% of our U.S. supply is certified  
by American Humane Certified, Certified 
Humane, or United Egg Producers• 100% of our European supply raises sows  
in alternative gestation housing
• 19% of our global supply raises sows  
in alternative gestation housing
• 100% of our U.S. supply has annual  
animal welfare audits at the plant• Farmers Assuring Responsible Management  
and Code of Practice for the Care and Handling  
of Dairy Cattle program and guidelines are required  
for U.S. and Canadian suppliers, respectively 
• Tail docking was prohibited in U.S. and Canadian  
supply in 2017
• 100% of our U.S. supply no longer tail docks
• 100% of the cattle in our U.S. dairy supply do not  
have hock injuries
• 100% of the cattle in our U.S. dairy supply are free  
from moderate or severe lameness• 100% of our U.S. supply has annual animal 
welfare audits at the plant
GOALS & INSIGHTS
• We have an ongoing project that includes 
encouraging adoption of decision trees  
for euthanasia and fitness to transport  
for poultry• We are committed to working with suppliers  
for science-based improvements in broiler 
welfare that align with environmentally 
sustainable practices• Goal: 100% free-range egg purchases  
in Europe by end of 2020
• Goal: 100% cage-free egg purchases  
globally by 2025
• We delivered our goal of acheiving 100% 
free-range eggs in Europe as of January 1, 
2021 and are on track to meet our cage-free 
egg target. • We will continue to work with animal welfare  
experts and suppliers on best practices to  
eliminate painful procedures, such as teeth  
clipping, castration, and tail docking, where  
possible and mitigate the pain when necessary• We applaud our suppliers and the industry for  
enhanced pain mitigation protocols at disbudding
• We will continue discussions with suppliers and  
industry partners about incorporating polled genetics
• We support Farmers Assuring Responsible Management  
implementing corrective action/probation plans  
for farms that don’t comply with tail docking regulations• We are working with suppliers to better 
understand transport distances in all stages  
of production for beef cattle in our supply 
chain 
Stepping Up to the Plate: Kraft Heinz 2021 ESG Report                 Please refer to page 74 and 75 for additional information on the above metrics.