Executive Leadership Team  
Our Executive Leadership Team provides oversight and 
executional leadership for our global ESG strategy. The Executive 
Leadership Team is led by Chief Executive Officer, Miguel 
Patricio, and includes 10 other executives representing a variety 
of disciplines, including Finance, Sales, Operations, Procurement, 
Marketing, Research and Development, Human Resources, Legal/
Ethics & Compliance and Corporate Affairs. The team receives 
monthly progress reports from the ESG team.ESG Team and Steering Group
Accountable to the Board of Directors and in partnership with 
the Executive Leadership Team, the ESG Team directs the design, 
development, execution and continuous improvement of our 
ESG strategy, goals and initiatives. The ESG Team engages with 
key stakeholders regularly, including consumers, customers, 
shareholders, employees, NGOs and community leaders, and 
leads the ESG Steering Group. 
The ESG Steering Group is comprised of leaders in various 
functions around the globe. Team leaders are responsible 
for mobilizing the organization and collaborating across 
departments to lead the development, implementation, 
continuous improvement and measurement of relevant ESG 
policies, procedures and programs. The ESG Steering Group has 
subcommittees that meet regularly in the following areas: Product 
Health; Sustainable Agriculture; Responsible Sourcing; Sustainable 
Manufacturing; Sustainable Packaging; Animal Welfare; and 
Communications. 
These practices ensure alignment with business strategies and 
operational objectives. The CEO and key leadership, along with 
various other team members, hold ESG key performance metrics 
linked to renumeration associated with all ESG initiatives. 
Please visit http://ir.kraftheinzcompany.com  and/or our Proxy 
Statement  filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission 
on March 26, 2021 to learn more about our Company’s 
corporate governance structure and leadership. Kraft Heinz is 
proud to integrate our ESG governance practices into our Proxy 
Statements. Kraft Heinz has also increasingly integrated and 
disclosed environmental related financial exposure that feeds 
into various reporting frameworks, such as Sustainalytics, the Dow 
Jones Sustainability Index*, and CDP (Climate, Water and Forest 
questionnaires).ESG Governance 
The Kraft Heinz Company is committed to responsible corporate governance. We have 
designed our governance structure to enable us to live our Vision and Values. 
9
* Kraft Heinz was awarded Industry Mover Status by S&P Global  in The Sustainability Yearbook 2021, which showcases  
over 7,000 of the best performing companies in its rankings in terms of financially material ESG metrics