In Europe, we adhere to clear guidelines and requirements, 
including the U.K.’s OFCOM  and Advertising Standards Authority , 
as well as the Netherlands Code of Conduct on Kids Marketing . 
In Australia and New Zealand, we adhere to self-regulatory 
codes including the New Zealand Children and Young People’s 
Advertising Code  and the Australian Responsible Children’s 
Marketing Initiative . 
42Responsible Marketing
Kraft Heinz is committed to marketing and advertising its products in a responsible and suitable manner, 
particularly products marketed and advertised to children under the age of 12. 
Employees responsible for creating, approving or placing 
marketing materials for Kraft Heinz have primary responsibility 
for compliance with Company guidelines, and such marketing 
team members are formally trained regarding requirements and 
expectations pursuant to various marketing policies, including a 
Marketing to Kids Pledge. 
In the United States, Kraft Heinz abides by a comprehensive set 
of marketing to children standards: Children’s Food & Beverage 
Advertising Initiative  (CFBAI), Children’s Online Privacy Protection 
Act (COPPA) and Children’s Advertising Review Unit  (CARU). 
As noted in our Pledge  and CFBAI’s Core Principles , Kraft Heinz’s 
commitments relating to marketing to children include: 
• No advertising directed to children under 6 years of age; 
• Only qualified products which meet CFBAI’s uniform nutrition 
criteria may be marketed to children ages 6 to 11; 
• Guidelines apply to media (e.g. TV, internet, radio, etc.) that is 
primarily directed to children; and 
• No in-school marketing below the university level. 
Guidelines for Marketing  
Breast Milk Substitutes
Kraft Heinz recognizes the importance of breast-milk in 
feeding infants. Kraft Heinz also recognizes the breadth 
of diversity and variety of circumstances globally that can 
predicate the need to provide formulation nourishment to 
certain individuals that would otherwise not receive it. 
The Company complies with the World Health 
Organization (WHO) International Code for Marketing of 
Breast-Milk Substitutes and subsequent relevant World 
Health Assembly (the decision-making body of WHO) 
resolutions as implemented by international legislation or 
codes of practice. 
To further demonstrate our positions and approach on 
the manufacture and marketing of breast-milk substitutes, 
Kraft Heinz has established and published its Policy on 
Breast-Milk Substitutes . We will continue to review our 
internal policy in line with the latest recommendations of 
the WHO