“Ongoing pre-investment from members of the Disaster Responder Program 
like The Kraft Heinz Company Foundation helps create a reliable funding base 
for disaster relief services, providing food, shelter, emotional support and other 
essential assistance. Money donated by the public and members of our Disaster 
Responder Program is essential to our ability to assist disaster survivors and 
support the first responders and volunteers who work tirelessly at the scene of a 
disaster.”
– Don Herring, Red Cross Chief Development Officer
Greater Pittsburgh  
Community Food Bank
“During a time when more of our neighbors than ever before were facing so 
much uncertainty, Kraft Heinz stepped up to meet the need in an incredible 
way. Through its COVID relief support and Childhood Hunger Initiatives support, 
we were able to expand our reach in the community and ensure our neighbors 
have sufficient food to eat until they get back on their feet. On behalf of all our 
neighbors living with hunger, thank you, Kraft Heinz, for being a great neighbor 
and helping when our community needed you the most.” 
– Lisa Scales, president and CEO, Greater Pittsburgh Community Food BankGreater Chicago Food Depository
“The Kraft Heinz Company, co-headquartered in Chicago, 
has proven time and again to be a strong partner in our mission of ending hunger 
here in Cook County. In the past five years, Kraft Heinz has donated the equivalent 
of more than 3.7 million meals to families in need. At the Greater Chicago Food 
Depository, Chicago’s food bank, we are so thankful for the company’s unwavering 
support in the ongoing hunger crisis” . 
– Kate Maehr, Executive Director and CEO, Greater Chicago Food Depository 
Food Banks Canada
In 2020 alone, Kraft Heinz Canada contributed 
more than 2 million pounds in food donations to food banks across 
Canada in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. As Canada’s 
largest food company, we are committed to reducing food 
insecurity and, in the long term, eliminating hunger. We contribute 
to the community primarily through Food Banks Canada, which 
represents about 650 food banks across the country