26Employee  
Health & Wellness
26
In May 2018, Kraft Heinz launched its new LiveWell health and wellness platform in the U.S. 
following a successful Canadian campaign. Today, LiveWell at Kraft Heinz continues to underscore 
our commitment to helping employees achieve optimal health. This commitment includes physical, 
emotional, financial and social health and well-being. Kraft Heinz realizes that life does not stop for 
work. Throughout the year, we utilize LiveWell to address various topics concerning health and well-
being through speaker series, global and local events, and targeted initiatives on physical fitness, 
mental health, family and community, and financial education. We have created a LiveWell hub 
for employees to easily access relevant external resources and link to programs available in their 
local countries. We have continued to champion the LiveWell program’s holistic approach to well-
being in response to COVID-19 with enhanced programs, including healthcare benefits, disability and 
employee assistance initiatives.  
At Kraft Heinz, we’ve worked to address the stigma attached to discussing and supporting 
mental health and well-being in the workplace.  Recognizing that this stigma is compounded 
in underrepresented groups, we elevated our plan to support all of our employees.  In 2020, 
we focused on mental well-being around the world with several key initiatives: supporting 
people managers with specific communications and learning resources; offering several 
learning opportunities for all employees to hear from experts about building resiliency 
and taking care of your emotional well-being; and launching our Global LiveWell 
site which includes a section on Health & Wellbeing.  We also provided Calm app 
subscriptions to our U.S. and U.K. employees as an added benefit. 
Our International Zone worked to upskill our Human Resources (HR) Teams with Mental 
Health First Aid training, resulting in over 60 HR employees across the zone receiving a 
certification in 2020. Our aim is to have at least one Mental Health First Aider in each of 
our offices and factories. An integral part of our Mental Health First Aid Training is self-care 
– you can’t assist others without putting your own oxygen mask on first