ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP
HEALTHY LIVING & COMMUNITY SUPPORT
APPENDIX
INTRODUCTION
RESPONSIBLE SOURCINGHuman Rights
In 2019, Kraft Heinz released a new Global Human Rights Policy , 
which is guided by internationally recognized standards, including 
the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human 
Rights, the International Bill of Human Rights and the principles 
set forth in the International Labor Organization’s Declaration on 
Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. 
As part of the Global Human Rights Policy, Kraft Heinz requires all 
employees and related entities, suppliers and business partners to 
strictly adhere to our human rights standards, which, in summary: 
• Prohibit child and underage employment 
• Prohibit trafficking, forced or involuntary prison labor 
• Prohibit all and any forms of abuse, bribery, harassment and 
discrimination 
• Recognize and respect the rights of freedom of association 
and collective bargaining 
• Recognize and respect fair, legal and equitable work 
timeframes, working conditions (including health and safety) 
and wages 
• Recognize land rights, natural resources and ensure all 
workers’ rights to clean water and adequate sanitation 
facilities 
• Require all labor recruitment and employment procedures to 
be carried out in a legal and ethical manner Following the release of the Global Human Rights Policy, Kraft 
Heinz undertook a global human rights risk assessment with third-
party assistance. This exercise highlighted relative risk factors 
by commodity type overlaid with associated geographical risk. 
The evaluation also included economic and social criteria to 
determine points in our value chain where risk is highest, and 
where we could make the greatest impact. The scope of the 
assessment was all encompassing – rather than only evaluating 
specific commodities, we assessed nearly all of our ingredient food 
purchases. This assessment is influencing our plans to continuously 
develop and improve our due diligence and management 
programs. In 2020, we began plans of our two-prong approach, 
working collaboratively with our value chain toward proactive 
capacity building, identifying areas where we can collectively 
make improvements, as well as targeting specific elevated-risk 
procurement categories, with enforcement actions if necessary and 
segmentation based on:
• Type of supplier (Strategic, Core or Transactional)
• Risk categories and materiality
• Risk levels based on country pairings across procurement units
Kraft Heinz is committed to addressing any adverse human rights 
impacts within its supply chain. We require our suppliers, business 
partners and other relevant stakeholders to likewise adhere to any 
improvements as necessary. We also continue to take steps to 
strengthen our third party audit programs to ensure compliance 
with our Global Human Rights Policy , as well as with other Kraft 
Heinz ESG policies, such as our Supplier Guiding Principles . We will 
report the results of our audit program to our Executive Leadership 
Team on a regular cadence.Kraft Heinz values all life. We have a zero-tolerance approach to human rights violations across our 
entire value chain. As we look at our business, we know human rights are an essential part of being  
a good corporate citizen and doing the right thing. 
Stepping Up to the Plate: Kraft Heinz 2021 ESG Report                 61