535353
Renewable Electricity
Kraft Heinz is committed to operating responsibly and doing its 
part in the critical global efforts to reduce the harmful impacts of 
climate change. A big component of that commitment is both 
reducing how much energy we consume, and thereby reducing 
the associated emissions where applicable, as well as rethinking 
our energy sources. That is why in 2020, we committed to buy 
the majority of our electricity from renewable sources by 2025. 
During 2020, we also embarked upon several energy optimization 
initiatives at our global facilities, both combining smart long-term 
investments in energy efficiency, as well as instituting best practices 
aimed at controls and real-time operations management towards 
our energy stewardship goals. 
Science-Based Goals and Greenhouse  
Gas Management
In July 2018, Kraft Heinz announced its commitment to establish 
Science Based Targets in line with the Science Based Target 
initiative’s (SBTi) 2ºC trajectory. Since that announcement, the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (the United Nations 
body for assessing the science related to climate change), has 
updated its mitigation recommendation to match the current 
trajectory of climate change thresholds at 1.5ºC. 
In 2019, we worked with external consultants to help measure our 
carbon footprint across our entire global value chain, in accordance 
with the current 1.5ºC mitigation efforts. We are aligning our 
targets with the SBTi and are working with partners to identify 
the best solutions to ensure we reduce our emissions accordingly 
throughout the value chain. In 2020, we underwent a robust 
assessment related to our total value chain emissions, including 
externally verifying our Scope 3 emissions . We have also renewed 
our commitment to set a Science Based Target with SBTi by 2023, in accordance with the most current, credible and widely accepted 
climate science standards available. In the meantime, we are not 
resting. 
For example, we are directly targeting significant reductions in our 
respective emissions through:
• Scope 1:  Continuing to reduce consumption and transition 
from fossil-based fuels to renewable options (e.g. solar, 
biomass)
• Scope 2:  Continuing to expand procurement of the majority of 
our electricity from renewable sources for all facilities globally 
by 2025 
• Scope 3:  Strong partnership in advocacy toward initiatives that 
reduce emissions across our value chain
A considerable portion of our total carbon footprint is produced 
from our Scope 3 emissions, and more specifically originate in our 
supply chain (see graphs to the right for emissions breakdown). 
Agriculture related emissions are particularly significant and 
provide the greatest opportunity for reduction through increased 
collaboration. 
Overall, our highest impact categories in this area, in order of 
magnitude, are:
• Ingredients
• Packaging
• Upstream and downstream transportation
• Use of sold products
•  End-of-life
We will remain focused on optimizing our immediate operational 
footprint to lessen our impact on climate, while we increasingly 
investigate joint initiatives with our suppliers that ensure the highest 
quality products are produced, while being good stewards of the 
environment. 
Procure majority of electricity from renewable sources  by 2025.  
PROGRESS ON TRACK
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Progress
2020 Scope 3 Emissions Breakdown
Stepping Up to the Plate: Kraft Heinz 2021 ESG Report                 
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING
INTRODUCTION
APPENDIX
HEALTHY LIVING & COMMUNITY SUPPORTENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP