ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP
HEALTHY LIVING & COMMUNITY SUPPORT
APPENDIX70
INTRODUCTION
RESPONSIBLE SOURCINGThe shift towards a sustainable agricultural system is not always 
easy. While beneficial in the long run, many of these practices 
present a considerable risk for a farmer as it can take years to reach 
a return on investment, which is not always guaranteed. At Kraft 
Heinz, we truly believe in working together with our partners and 
encouraging the adoption of sustainable practices in a way that’s 
equally beneficial to both the farmer and the planet. 
In 2017, Kraft Heinz’s Agricultural Research Team, including 
Ruben Garcia, Luis Venegas and Samuel Cardona noticed that 
yields on our tomato research farm in California were declining, 
and soil pathogens were on the rise. Standard tomato cultivation 
works on a three-year cycle, with crops grown and harvested 
in year one and left fallow with any remaining plant residues 
for the next two years. Ruben noted that this practice created 
an impermeable, compacted upper layer of soil that increased 
erosion and decreased overall soil health, leading to poorer yields 
and increased susceptibility to disease. His team then devised 
a strategy to improve soil health by incorporating a forage-mix 
cover crop (including oats, barley, wheat and other grasses) during 
fallow years. The cover crops would be planted during the regular 
growing season and, instead of harvested, plant matter would be 
incorporated back into the soil. The team also included a practice 
known as deep ripping, whereby any compacted soil is broken up 
mechanically to allow for better water infiltration. FEATURE STORY
Ruben and his team demonstrated that this 
strategy protected the soil from erosion, 
increased soil organic matter by approximately 
fifty percent (see graph below) and significantly 
reduced the growth of targeted weeds. In 
addition, the team was able to show that this 
practice paid for itself multiple times over from the 
increase in yields and decrease of agricultural inputs 
such as fertilizer and herbicides. 
Practices like this can be challenging for farmers to adopt 
as they may not see any return on their investment for many 
years. However, our growing partners have begun to adopt these 
practices because of the knowledge shared by the Kraft Heinz team. 
“I’m proud of the work that my team has done to demonstrate the 
value of sustainable initiatives to our suppliers and partners. We all 
know how important it is to feed ourselves and our animals, but in this 
case, we’re feeding our soil – and that’s just as important if you ask 
me.” Samuel Cardona, Kraft Heinz Agricultural Research Team. Feeding our Soil
Over the course of four years, soil organic matter increased approximately 
50 percent with the inclusion of sustainable practices such as deep ripping 
and cover cropping