Supplier Guiding Principles 
Kraft Heinz has developed a set of Global Principles applicable to 
its supply chain referred to as the Supplier Guiding Principles . In 
2020, Kraft Heinz set out on an ambitious path to update these 
Supplier Guiding Principles in accordance with our commitment 
for improved efficacy and due diligence with our valued suppliers 
around sustainable business practices. The Supplier Guiding 
Principles will apply to all suppliers and we have plans to include 
external manufacturers and joint venture partners in the near 
future. They ensure consistency across operations for upholding 
fundamental values and all applicable laws. They also require 
compliance with local labor, human rights and environmental 
standards. If requested, suppliers must certify their compliance 
and undergo audits to ensure they meet our Supplier Guiding 
Principles. 
Political Contributions and Lobbying Activity 
As part of the Company’s ongoing engagement in the communities 
where our employees live and work, we engage in the political 
process to help shape public policies that impact our business 
around the world. Our goal is to ensure issues that impact our 
value chain, including employees, suppliers, customers, consumers 
and shareholders are fairly represented at all levels of government. 
For more information on our political contributions and lobbying 
activity, please visit https://www.kraftheinzcompany.com/
contributions.html . 
Kraft Heinz engages responsibly in the political process in the 
communities where our employees live and work. Our goal is 
to ensure public officials representing our people, products and 
manufacturing facilities understand the issues that impact our 
business. We adhere to the local laws and regulations governing 
interactions with government officials, and participate in the 
political process through issue advocacy and political contributions. 
Kraft Heinz has put in place effective compliance procedures 
for, and oversight of, lobbying activities, corporate contributions 
and The Kraft Heinz Political Action Committee (Kraft Heinz 
PAC) expenditures. The Kraft Heinz Code of Conduct  requires 
all employees to maintain honest, forthright and transparent 
relationships with government officials.Ethics & Compliance
ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING
INTRODUCTION
HEALTHY LIVING & COMMUNITY SUPPORT
APPENDIX
12
 Stepping Up to the Plate: Kraft Heinz 2021 ESG Report                 