In 2020 amidst the global pandemic, we recognized our 
responsibility to respond during this time of need in the world 
in any way we could. We optimized our donation strategy 
and response times, and successfully increased our total food 
donations, accounting for more than 35 million meals around the 
world in 2020 to those in need. We achieved this through greater 
focus, discipline and our ownership culture that is pervasive 
throughout our employee base, which empowered employees 
to decisively and quickly act as needs arose. Moreover, key 
components of this program included: 
•  Incorporating additional accountabilities around updating 
product code date information to increase donatable life 
•  More frequently analyzing warehouse data to optimize product 
that could be diverted to donations•  Increased engagement with our partners to find new outlets 
and ensure product is in the best form to be received for 
donation and relabeled or repackaged when necessary 
•  Working with our retail and food service customers to increase 
donations, learn best practices, and share in the mission to 
decrease food waste
Kraft Heinz has joined together with industry peers to eliminate 
food waste globally. Kraft Heinz Canada and Kraft Heinz United 
Kingdom both joined national commitments to reduce food waste. 
U.K.:  In the U.K., Kraft Heinz joined the Food Waste Reduction 
Roadmap (FWRR) initiative. More than one hundred food-related 
organizations have committed to supporting this initiative, which 
aims to reduce food waste in the U.K. by 50 percent by 2030. The 
initiative is run by IGD (a food research and training organization) 
and WRAP (a nonprofit focused on sustainability) to verify data and 
encourage best practices. Kraft Heinz committed to setting a target 
for food waste reduction across our own operations towards the 
broader goal, and to also work in partnership with suppliers and 
consumers to that end. WRAP committed to report results in 2019, 
2022, 2026 and issue a final report in 2031 against the 50 percent 
reduction goal. 
Canada: In Canada, Kraft Heinz has joined seven other companies 
in a pledge to reduce food waste in operations by 50 percent by 
2025. Our collective progress towards this aggressive goal will be 
reported annually to Canada’s National Zero Waste Council and 
the Provision Coalition. Kraft Heinz will use the globally recognized 
Food Loss and Waste Accounting and Reporting Standard to 
report our annual progress