PG.12Introduction
Fisker was founded on “People & Planet First” 
principles now deeply embedded across all 
business functions at the company. Fisker's 
foundational purpose of sustainability, coupled 
with a fierce requisite for innovation, creates 
more than forward-thinking, future-forward 
vehicles: it establishes a Fisker mentality. 
This unique culture challenges all traditional 
decisions to push sustainability further.    
We are a young organization built on solid 
expertise in all aspects. Fisker business 
practices are meant to disrupt, challenge 
thinking, and set an example for our industry 
and beyond. 
In November 2021, Fisker became a signatory 
of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), 
aligning with internationally accepted human 
rights, labor, the environment, and  
anti-corruption principles.   
As aptly noted on the UNGC website,  
“By incorporating the T en Principles of the UN 
Global Compact into strategies, policies  
and procedures, and establishing a culture  
of integrity, companies are not only  
upholding their basic responsibilities to people 
and planet, but also setting the stage  
for long-term success.” People and 
Planet First
People   
Fisker is a growing company made for the 
future with like-minded experts. Building a  
team with deep knowledge and focus  
on the environment is a strategic imperative. 
Functional team professionals will quickly 
become leaders as Fisker grows in the  
near term.   
We performed a company-wide materiality 
assessment to identify the relevance and 
impacts of our work using the United Nations 
Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDGs). 
Internal functional departments structured 
and aligned with the UNSDG objectives to set 
performance targets.  Departments now focus 
on milestones to achieve targets, meeting  
on a regular cadence to report progress and 
course correct. Additionally, 2021 cultivated 
groundwork development of policies and 
procedures that reflect Fisker values, including 
fostering a transparent and open feedback 
culture and identifying priority issues  
for employees, including diversity, equity, 
and inclusion (DEI), pay equity, and work/
life balance. These dedicated workstreams 
started with benchmarking in 2021, and 
decisions on action plans extend into 2022.  