PG.13Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion 
(DEI) Statement 
Diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) are values 
Fisker strives to reinforce in everything our 
company does, both internally and externally. 
DEI, like sustainability, has been integral to our 
culture since the company was founded and 
continues to be something we seek to nurture 
and extend at each opportunity. At Fisker, 
inclusion unleashes the power of diversity.  
At the same time, the pursuit of equity eliminates 
barriers, engenders respect, enhances dignity, 
and helps us recognize that our employees, 
customers, and partners are unique.   
 During the first day of onboarding, every employee, 
regardless of function,  is educated on Fisker's 
foundational ESG purpose and how it is integrated  
into decision-making. We challenge each employee  
to consider these questions with every  task:
• Are we doing the best we can for the environment?  
• Are we doing the best we can for the fair treatment  
of people?We endeavor to foster a sense of belonging 
and empowerment in our workplace, create 
sustainable products for our customers, listen 
before engaging in our communities, and labor 
as a team alongside our various suppliers. Our 
environment is inclusive, accepting, authentic, 
and free of judgments and bullying. We 
celebrate the variety of race, gender, sexual 
orientation (LGBTI+), creed, age, and abilities, 
and we actively support the freedom of an 
individual to express themselves  
in appearance and identity.   
These core values are protected by our leaders 
and bolstered by a company-wide mandate 
to be transparent. Our policies are also global, 
as we believe human rights for all people must 
be guarded and defended. Ultimately, Fisker 
wants everyone who works for us and with us, 
and anyone who interacts with our company 
or uses our products, to experience a strong 
sense of belonging and intrinsic value.   
Our culture demands the thoughtful 
development of our DEI work. Beyond 
benchmarking, some immediate actions to set 327
101
December 31, 2020 December 31, 2021 August 1, 2022537Fisker Employee Headcount Growth