PG.3ESG must be the foundation of any auto company striving to ensure the future of personal mobility. 
Fisker is influencing the auto industry by demonstrating innovative and positive change, beginning 
with the release of the all-electric, five-passenger Fisker Ocean SUV in Q4 2022.  
Fisker puts People and Planet first in everything we do. We incorporate sustainability into our 
systems thinking, where environmental consideration permeates every decision. This mindset 
shows from even the most minor actions – we sourced the end bolts of theatre fabric, destined 
for the landfill, for our product reveals – to the most visible, such as the large solar roof available 
on the Fisker Ocean. We have solidified partnerships with leading, like-minded global suppliers 
who share our sustainability and human rights values and systems philosophy. Our sustainable 
practices collectively align with our demand for high-quality design, materials, and components, 
resulting in products offering an engaging driving experience harnessing innovative technology. 
For design and sustainability, every detail matters.  
The tens of thousands of Fisker Ocean SUV reservation holders share our values. Our vehicles 
provide a reasonably priced, premium quality, technology-driven mobility experience. We believe 
these reservations and early commitments for our next offering, the Fisker PEAR, are making a 
statement: consumers want electric vehicles with features that surpass other mobility choices.   
This report expresses our firm commitment to transparency, providing an account of our 
sustainable actions and future planning, even before our first vehicles roll off the line at a carbon 
neutral production facility. Foundational to our business, Fisker continues to support the United 
Nations Global Compact and its T en Principles, preventing corruption and protecting human 
rights, labor, and the environment, helping us keep to our ESG ethos. Fisker and our partners will 
continue to move rapidly toward delivering world-class, sustainable products that meet today's 
market demand