PG.20Smart Management  
Driving a technology-forward business model 
and consumer experience forces an equivalent 
need for quality security and privacy measures 
to protect our data information technology and 
product portfolio. Transformative innovations  
in vehicle design are laying the groundwork  
for self-driving smart vehicles through 
electrification, data sharing, and hyper-
connectivity. These innovations are 
changing the nature of transportation and 
our relationships with the cars that move 
us. Connectivity and digitalization are now 
foundational business enablers. We  
recognize the growing dependence  
on cybersecurity to assure the enterprise  
and our digital innovations.  in both the hardware and software layers. Our 
security and privacy-by-design approach 
considers digital risk at concept  
and throughout the product's lifecycle, a 
process that is key to maintaining ISO/SAE 
21434 compliance. 
Our goal is to continuously balance 
technological advances, stay informed  
by risk management principles, and maintain 
the required attention to the potential risks 
they pose to the environment. The continuous 
evolution of the digital vehicle, the expansion  
of the vehicle ecosystem, and the advent  
of autonomous driving capabilities will 
inevitably continue to elevate cybersecurity and 
privacy concerns to another level of complexity 
and risk. Cybersecurity and data protection 
must be part of our comprehensive corporate 
governance plan, ensuring the effective 
management of digital risks by continuously 
assessing and monitoring evolving threats 
and the regulatory landscape. Fisker aligns its 
risk management system to the internationally 
recognized ISO27001 standard, which serves 
as the bedrock of our global cybersecurity and 
data protection policy. 
Our cybersecurity and data privacy 
governance structure is a priority at the 
highest levels of the company. The Fisker 
Board of Directors, CEO, and COO provide 
strategic oversight responsibilities for the 
program and risks. At the same time, the Chief 
Information Security Officer and an executive 
council monitor the next level of governance 
responsibilities. An enterprise cybersecurity 
management team drives cybersecurity 
and data protection functions across all 
areas of the business. This management 
team evaluates risk management programs, 
ensuring the protection of vehicle systems 
against unauthorized access, the protection  
of business and customer data, the  
readiness to respond to cybersecurity 
incidents from the field, and the monitoring  
of cyber risk originating from the supply chain. "Enhanced connectivity is central to vehicle 
innovation and the commercialization of these 
'always on / connected' vehicles. The new 
digital frontier is bringing about autonomous 
driving, fleet management, app-based control 
capabilities, and real-time telematics data 
collection. While connectivity brings new 
opportunities and capabilities, the rapid 
evolution of these systems also presents new 
complexities, including security and privacy 
risks that must be managed across the 
lifecycle of the vehicle.“ —
 Dr. Geeta Gupta-Fisker, Chief Financial Officer 
Our state-of-the-art electric vehicle technology, 
including active safety, infotainment, and 
connectivity features, requires significant 
bandwidth and computing power. The 
advanced electrical system architecture 
enables in-vehicle technologies to run 
seamlessly and in conjunction with each other. 
Cybersecurity is a core pillar of our Fisker 
Ocean architecture, with protective features 