PG.18Corporate expansion and the release of the all-
electric Fisker Ocean SUV in November 2022 
will impact emissions results. We designed 
systems to calculate emissions against this 
growth and will track and report an accurate 
picture of our overall environmental impact 
each year. Fisker does not purchase offsets  
for our operations and plans to use climate-
neutral services to support our business.    Fisker  2021 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Inventory, tCO2 e
Scope 1 Emissions
Manhattan Beach Office Heating 173.91
San Francisco Office Heating 1.67 
Culver City Studio Heating 15.82 
Vehicle T esting/Validation: Gasoline Vehicles 1 7.7 9  
T otal  Scope 1 Emissions 209.19
Scope 2 Emissions
Manhattan Beach Office Electricity Use 138.69
San Francisco Office Electricity Use 3.83
Culver City Studio Electricity Use 6.82
Vehicle T esting/Validation: Electric Vehicles 4.70
T otal Scope 2 Emissions 154.04
Grand T otal 363.22 
Asset Light Model 
Fisker is a design-forward organization stirred 
by the powerful shape and emotional appeal 
of our vehicles. This innovative inspiration 
stretches to our "Asset Light" business model. 
For decades, vehicle companies worked  
within the same basic business model, 
requiring a significant up-front financial 
commitment to create asset-heavy and 
environmentally impactful delivery-to-
distribution points for the consumer. At Fisker, 
we shifted this thinking into a more modern, 
nimble, technology-forward "Asset Light" 
approach. Asset Light is more than a good 
business model: it squarely supports our values 
and purpose. In 2022, we will present a carbon 
footprint calculation of avoided emissions 
thanks to our Asset Light modern approach.   "Our corporate culture is forward-thinking  
and pushes boundaries while delivering  
class-leading performance. Our systems are 
built for speed and efficiency.  It’s a pivotal  
time for Fisker. We are fully focused  
on our vision for the future, offering a quality, 
innovative, and sustainable personal 
transportation experience.“ —
 Dr. Geeta Gupta-Fisker, Chief Financial Officer 