PG.11Since its inception in 2016, dedication to sustainability defines Fisker Inc.  
Key moments demonstrate the sustainability heartbeat at Fisker:    
• Carbon neutrality is in our founding announcement.  
• Fisker commits to non-financial ESG reporting BEFORE going public.  
• Fisker carefully chooses like-minded partners, including Magna  
with its carbon-neutral factory. 
• In 2021, Fisker announced an aspirational goal to create a 100% 
climate neutral vehicle by 2027 .  
• Utilizing all-electric, emissions free Fisker vehicles enables other 
companies to reach goals of zero emissions mobility.  
• Fisker signed the United Nations Global Compact as a participant.  
• Fisker underscored its commitment to safety, releasing the world's first 
digital radar. 
• Fisker released this inaugural ESG Impact report.    
 
Fisker adopted all these actions even BEFORE the start of production  
of the Fisker Ocean, scheduled for November 2022. Fisker is poised  
to redefine the standards of sustainability in the automobile industry. 
2016November
Fisker Inc. is founded by Henrik Fisker and Dr. Geeta Gupta
2018
October
Fisker announces all-electric Fisker Ocean SUV
2020
June
Fisker commits to measuring and reporting on environmental, 
social, and governance (ESG) practices, setting the standard 
for ESG reporting
October
Fisker partners with Magna, exclusive manufacturer  
for Fisker Ocean SUV
October
Fisker begins trading on the NYSE under "FSR" ticker
2022
January
Fisker reveals world's first digital radar in a production vehicle, 
bringing state-of-the-art safety to Fisker Ocean SUV
August
Releases this inaugural ESG Impact Report, aligned with 
Sustainable Accounting Standards Board and setting ESG key 
performance indicators ahead of first production
Q4
Fisker Ocean SUV production starts
2021March
Fisker signs MOU with Credit Agricole Consumer Finance  
for Fisker Ocean EVs as a function of its own net zero ambition
April
Fisker marks World Earth Day by calling for action on a 
new federal program titled "75 And More For 55 And Less," 
encouraging adoption of clean energy mobility powered  
by sophisticated automotive technology developed  
in America for use around the world
November
Fisker reveals its production intent version of the Fisker Ocean 
SUV, featuring an emotionally invigorating, sleek, and stylish 
exterior with ultra-slim lighting, based on a wide stance that 
enhances handling and emphasizes its road presence
December
Fisker commits to the United Nations Global CompactJune
Fisker announces a target date of 2027 for 100% climate 
neutral vehicle
August
Fisker secured a $625 million Green Convertible Bond 
intended specifically for new or existing eligible green 
initiatives for new model and technology developmentSustainability Story