PG.24We pre-qualify our suppliers through a sustainability filter that identifies 
those organizations meeting a series of criteria from the International 
Material Database System (IMDS), a global standard in collecting, 
maintaining, analyzing, and archiving all materials used for manufacturing 
automobiles. ESG is present within supplier contracts. Where possible, 
localization is prioritized, with most suppliers within 1,000 km of production. 
Our production collaboration with Magna provides a notable example 
of our ESG ethos. Magna provides both engineering and tech-forward 
innovation to production, and its production facilities are run with 100% 
green electricity. Magna sets an example for creative ingenuity and a 
sustainable mindset by mapping and tracking its water use and re-use 
carefully. Water efficiency and responsible discharge can be attributed  
to processes within production for a clearer footprint. 
Fisker intends to live its values, including in material selection. In future 
years, we will be required to report certain conflict mineral usage  
through government channels. Well ahead of this requirement, our mission 
drives us to collect information from suppliers concerning the country  
of origin and chain of custody of conflict materials. In addition to the US 
State Department recognized conflict materials of tungsten, tin, tantalum, 
and gold, Fisker also recognizes cobalt. We would like to lead in the 
electric vehicle space and source without benefiting armed groups  
in conflict countries. Fisker follows the Responsible Mining Initiative  
along with standards for survey and responsible chain of custody 
practices. We will begin reporting to the US Security and Exchange 
Commission next year. 
Fisker teams consider materials from a series of criteria: quality, 
recyclability, expense, contribution to carbon footprint, performance,  
and appearance. Materials engineers review and analyze each part  
to identify where products could be lighter, have purer materials  
for recyclability at end-of-use, and lessen impact on the environment. 
An internal research study shows that efforts focused on reducing  
mass and carbon footprint of materials will return a significant  
reduction in overall carbon emissions for the life cycle of a vehicle.  
The Fisker Ocean will have more than 50 kg of recycled polymers and 
biobased materials.Choosing Materials  