22 22
 The Coca-Cola Company 2021 Reporting Frameworks & SDGsGOAL PRIORITY TARGET MORE INFORMATION
Goal 1. End poverty in all its 
forms everywhere1.5   B y 2030, build the resilience of the poor and those in vulnerable situations and reduce their 
exposure and vulnerability to climate-related extreme events and other economic, social and environmental shocks and disasters2021 Business & ESG Report – Stakeholder Engagement & Partnerships, p. 19– Our Communities, p. 24– Using Technology to Better Manage Risks and Empower Workers, p. 49– Economic Empowerment, p. 50
Goal 2. End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture2.3 
   B y 2030, double the agricultural productivity and incomes of small-scale food producers, in 
particular women, indigenous peoples, family farmers, pastoralists and fishers, including through secure and equal access to land, other productive resources and inputs, knowledge, financial services, markets and opportunities for value addition and non-farm employment
2.4 
  B
y 2030, ensure sustainable food production systems and implement resilient agricultural 
practices that increase productivity and production, that help maintain ecosystems, that strengthen capacity for adaptation to climate change, extreme weather, drought, flooding and other disasters and that progressively improve land and soil quality2021 Business & ESG Report – Our Communities, p. 24– Our Watersheds, p. 25– Sustainable Agriculture, pp. 42–45– Human Rights Due Diligence Approaches Across Our Value Chain, p. 48
2021 CDP Forests ResponseHuman Rights in The Coca-Cola Company Sugar Supply Chain: Lessons 
and Opportunities
Human Rights 2022 Overview
Goal 3. Ensure healthy lives 
and promote well-being for all at all ages3.4
  B y 2030, reduce by one third premature mortality from non-communicable diseases through 
prevention and treatment and promote mental health and well-being2021 Business & ESG Report – Our Communities, p. 24– Our Total Beverage Portfolio, pp. 28–31– Getting COVID-19 Vaccines to Go the “Last Mile” in Africa and Beyond, p. 57
Goal 5.  Achieve gender 
equality and empower all women and girls5.1 
E nd all forms of discrimination against all women and girls everywhere 
5.5 E
nsure women’s full and effective participation and equal opportunities for leadership at all 
levels of decision-making in political, economic and public life 
5.a 
  U
ndertake reforms to give women equal rights to economic resources, as well as access to
ownership and control over land and other forms of property, financial services, inheritance and natural resources, in accordance with national laws 
5.b 
  E
nhance the use of enabling technology, in particular information and communications
technology, to promote the empowerment of women 
5.c 
  Ad
opt and strengthen sound policies and enforceable legislation for the promotion of gender
equality and the empowerment of all women and girls at all levels2021 Business & ESG Report – Our Water Security Strategy, pp. 22–26– Economic Empowerment, p. 50– Diversity, Equity & Inclusion, pp. 52–55– Giving Back to Communities, p. 56
5by20 Report: A Decade of AchievementThe Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were first launched in 2015 and are a core part of the agenda developed by the 193 member states of the United Nations to work toward the future we want, one where all people thrive within a 
healthy environment. The 17 goals—geared toward a 2030 timeframe—and their related 169 targets have become an important framework for companies to rally around as they address an array of complex, interrelated global issues. 
We recognize that we cannot achieve any one of the SDGs on our own. Yet, as a global company with a wide supply chain and consumer reach, we have a significant role to play in meeting many of these ambitious aims. We have taken a 
closer look at where we can make direct contributions to the SDGs, whether through collaboration with our partners and industry peers, supplier engagement, or in other places where we have leverage to amplify our positive impacts. 
The following table outlines the SDG goals and specific targets to which we most directly contribute, with links to more information.The Coca‑Cola Company and The United Nations Sustainable Development GoalsGRI TCFD SASB SDGs