Climate Change – continuedFord  
Fundamentals Our Sustainability 
St
rategy Driving Innovation and  Sus
tainable Growth Putting  Pe
ople First Protecting the En
vironment Creating Responsible an
d Ethical Growth 

CASE STUDYCreating a Sustainable
Manufacturing Ecosystem– BlueOval City
The creation of our new BlueOval City plant 
in Tennessee is crucial to our long-term vision to lead America’s transition to electric vehicles and introduce more sustainable, carbon-neutral manufacturing. BlueOval City is designed to achieve carbon neutrality, send zero waste to landfill, and use freshwater only for human consumption once fully operational. The $7 billion investment supports our goal of creating a sustainable American manufacturing ecosystem as it creates jobs for the local communities and builds on Ford’s position as America’s leading employer of hourly autoworkers. logistics more sustainable and efficient all play a role in re
aching our carbon neutrality goal. We are also 
mindful of opportunities to have a positive impact in the local community and surrounding ecosystem. This work is guided by our global manufacturing carbon reduction strategy. 
Our energy-efficiency and conservation efforts over the 
pa
st decade have focused on improvements to lighting, 
compressed air, rotating equipment (fans, pumps and motors), and heating systems. We’ve also improved processes and consolidated and/or closed plants to improve utilization of operations. The net effect of these efforts is a 35% absolute reduction in our global manufacturing GHG footprint since 2017. In fact, we achieved our previous manufacturing GHG emissions target in 2017, eight years early, through initiatives such as installing LED lights and updating our painting operations. 
Our present manufacturing target is an 18% absolute 
re
duction in GHG by 2023. To achieve this, we are focused 
on securing a renewable and reliable energy supply for our manufacturing plants, making these facilities even more efficient, and leveraging data to drive decisions. 
We report our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions, participate 
in em
issions trading schemes such as the EU European 
Trading Scheme (EU ETS) and adhere to a number of carbon reduction initiatives in the United States, Europe, Mexico, Canada, and other countries. 
Looking to the future, we are focused on driving energy 
effic
iency throughout the manufacturing processes. 
We’re incorporating energy-efficient best practices as we build new offices. Our Research and Engineering and Corktown campuses will achieve an Energy Utilization Intensity that is 50% better than historical Ford office spaces. And in Dearborn, the new Research and Engineering Center under construction is designed to be carbon neutral when it is occupied in 2025. These and other efforts make progress toward achieving our 2035 SBTi target of 76% GHG reduction in combined man
ufacturing and non-manufacturing locations. 
We’ll be measuring our progress. Sustainability linked pe
rformance metrics align our financing actions with 
our commitment to operate a safe, sustainable and successful business – elements that are fundamental to the Ford+ Plan for growth and value creation. 
Read more about our Sustainable Financing Framework on p.27 
Meeting Customer Preferences Our global fuels migration path and our technology mi
gration plan are based on delivering high-quality 
vehicles that consumers desire while responding to the risks associated with climate change. 
Given the urgency of the climate crisis, we are focusing 
on el
ectrification, prioritizing all-electric versions of our 
most iconic models, the Mustang Mach-E, the Ford-150 Lightning, and the E-Transit commercial van. Our strategy is to make the electric vehicles the most capable vehicles we have embracing a clean-sheet approach to designing, launching and scaling breakthrough, high-volume electric and connected products and services for retail, commercial, and shared mobility. 
Electrification of these nameplates is delighting existing 
cus
tomers and bringing new customers to Ford. 70% of 
our Mustang Mach-E customers are new to Ford. More than 75% of F-150 Lightning reservation holders are new to the Ford brand