Our experience with audits demonstrates the willingness 
of su
ppliers and the effectiveness of the process to 
achieve progress at the facility level. We did not choose to end any supplier relationships due to unresolved audit findings in 2021. 
Read more about our Supply Chain actions in our 
Human Rights Report 
Responsibly Sourced Raw Materials
We aspire to source only raw materials that are responsibly 
produced. Sourcing responsibly the thousands of different materials is an important human rights issue. We continue to maintain a leadership position in addressing human rights issues associated with conflict minerals. We have a raw materials sourcing strategy that expands our due diligence program beyond conflict minerals to include mica, cobalt, lithium, rubber, and copper. In 2021, we began mapping and auditing our EV battery ma
terial supply chains. The program will strengthen 
our responsible sourcing capacity, allow for better risk assessments, and drive continual improvements in transparency, and responsibility in our cobalt, lithium, and nickel supply chains. 
Read more about EV Battery Raw Material Mapping and 
Auditing in our Human Rights Report
Additionally, we launched a new cross-functional team, 
the Responsible Materials Council (RMC), to build capacity among Ford skill teams to educate suppliers, advocate for transparency, and influence ESG considerations in sourcing and designing decisions. 
To help accomplish this strategy, Ford participates in 
ind
ustry and cross-industry associations and engagements 
that standardize tools, processes, and expectations so global suppliers can responsibly source materials. 
Read more in our Human Rights ReportEmpowering Women 
with Responsible Mineral Sourcing Pilot Program
Ford is working with its international nonprofit and grant 
making partners to support and promote a pilot program that will empower women working in the copper and cobalt supply chains in the Democratic Republic of Congo. The region has emerged as a key resource for critical metals that have become the keystone of the energy transition as the automotive industry electrifies more vehicles