Ford  
Fundamentals Our Sustainability 
Stra
tegy Driving Innovation and  Sust
ainable Growth Putting  Peo
ple First Protecting the Envi
ronment Creating Responsible and
 Ethical Growth 
Waste Management 
Waste:  Reach true zero waste to landfill  
across our operations 
Eliminate single-use plastics from 
our operations by 2030 
Reducing Waste 
Reducing waste reduces our impact on 
the p
lanet – and optimizes efficiency in 
our resource-intensive industry. We reuse or recycle any waste we do generate wherever possible, avoiding the landfill and providing us with an additional supply of valuable resources. 
Meeting Our Waste Targets 
The focus of our global waste strategy is to manage and m
inimize the waste we generate. We strive to reduce 
costs and keep waste out of landfill. Our waste targets remained largely unchanged despite COVID-19. We made some operational adjustments based on impacts at site level but our initial glide path remains constant. 
In 2021, Ford facilities around the world sent approximately 
16,
300 metric tons of waste to landfill, 7% less than 
in 2020. 
Over five years from a 2017 baseline, we are targeting a 
35% r
eduction in waste sent to landfill, a 15% reduction 
in waste generation, and a 25% reduction in general trash. We are developing a strategy to achieve our aspiration of eliminating single-use plastics from our global operations by 2030. Going for Zero In addition to our focus on reducing waste to landfill at our f
acilities, we are focused on minimizing the amount 
of waste we generate. Beginning in the third quarter of 2021, all Ford manufacturing plants in China achieved zero waste to landfill (ZWTL). Waste generated in all factories will either be managed for thermal destruction with or without energy recovery or recycled instead of being sent to landfills for final disposal. All of our European facilities have acquired ZWTL status, which means they send absolutely no waste to landfill. Globally Ford has 89 ZWTL manufacturing and non-manufacturing sites and 74% of global manufacturing sites are true ZWTL. 
To ensure that more of our facilities reach ZWTL 
sta
tus, we continue to implement a range of waste 
reduction initiatives. 
These include: 
•Implementing new technologies and programs that
minimize waste
•Standardizing the tracking and sorting of waste toincrease recycling and reuse
•Focusing on the five main sources of waste to landfillat each facility
•Working with suppliers to increase the use of eco-friendly packaging
Reducing the Impact of Packaging Packaging is crucial for protecting components on their jou
rney to our facilities. Using standardized containers 
and materials helps to optimize payloads and lower costs. In many locations, we have agreements with packaging providers so that containers are collected, stored, and forwarded to other suppliers. Before we launch a new vehicle, we work with suppliers to re
view how components and production parts will be 
packaged. Our packaging guidelines for North America and Asia Pacific require our suppliers’ packaging to have at least a neutral, if not positive, environmental footprint, achieved through the use of 100% recycled, renewable or recyclable materials. 
Reducing End-of-Life Impacts 
We proactively review non-dimensional materials such as lu
bricants and paints within our manufacturing 
operations. Going beyond applicable regulations, we are developing a timeline to further reduce substances of concern in our facilities, including those that are carcinogenic or environmentally persistent. 
Read more in our GRI Index in our ESG Data Book 
35 %
reduction in waste sent to landfill target by 2030 

CASE STUDYà Packaging that Avoids 
the Landfill 
Packaging for assembly line components used 
to end up in landfills. Not any more. The team at the Dagenham Engine Plant in the U.K. have been honored for creating the FrameTray system (FTS), injection-molded trays and lids that can be endlessly recycled. The FTS is saving millions of dollars and offers a 50% increase in packing density. It’s a cost-effective innovation that’s now positively helping other parts of the supply chain – as well as the planet