
Ford  
Fundamentals Our Sustainability 
Strate
gy Driving Innovation and  Sustai
nable Growth Putting  Peopl
e First Protecting the Enviro
nment Creating Responsible and Eth
ical Growth 
This generation is the first to feel the impact of 
climate change, and the last that can do anything about it. Ford is leading the electric revolution and standing for stronger standards to protect both people and the environment as we progress towards a zero-emissions transportation future. We have always been a leader in sustainability and are continuing in our efforts to leave future generations with a cleaner planet.” 
Bob Holycross, Vice President, 
Chief Sustainability, Environment and Safety Officer Overview 
We’re doing our part to address the urgency of 
climate change and accelerating our progress to carbon neutrality no later than 2050 
We’re reimagining how EVs – and the batteries that power 
them – are designed, manufactured, and recycled, creating an all-new electric vehicle ecosystem. And creating good jobs and a growing business that delivers value for everyone who relies on Ford. 
We’re aiming to achieve carbon neutrality no 
later t
han 2050. 
Ford is committed to being fully carbon neutral world
wide across our vehicles, facilities, and suppliers 
no later than 2050. 
We’re accelerating the electrification revolution. 
We’re acting now to ramp up production of our zero-emissi
ons vehicles. We’ve pledged to work towards sales 
of all new cars and vans being zero-emission globally by 2040 and are on track to have 50% of our global vehicle mix fully electric by 2030. 
Read more about our road to Carbon neutrality on p.84 We’re matching our ambition with action. Ford is the only full-line U.S. automaker to align with the Par
is Agreement and to stand with the California Air 
Resources Board in support of stronger GHG standards from vehicles. 
We’re changing how our products are made. 
We’re reducing the effects of our operations and supply chains t
hrough world-class facilities, including our 
commitment to sourcing 100 percent carbon-free electricity for our global operations by 2035. By using recycled and renewable materials in our vehicles’ design, we’re reducing landfill waste and using fewer natural resources. 
Read more about our Sustainable Financing Framework on p.27 
Sustainable Development Goals We are contributing to the following UN Sustainable Develo
pment Goals (SDGs): 
Our Sustainability Aspirations 
Climate Change: Achieve carbon  
neutrality no later than 2050 
Air:  Attain zero emissions from  
our vehicles and facilities 
Water:  Make zero water withdrawals  
for manufacturing processes 
Use freshwater only for human consumption Energy:  Use 100 percent carbon-free 
electricity in all manufacturing by 2035 
Materials:  Utilize only recycled or renewable  
content in vehicle plastics à à 
Waste:  Reach true zero waste to landfill  
across our operations 
Eliminate single-use plastics from 
our ope
rations by 2030Contents
82  |  Ford Integrated Sustainability and Financial Report 2022