Delivering Ford+ – continuedDelivering Ford+ – continued

21  |  Ford Integrated Sustainability and Financial Report 2022
Contents For d 
F
undamentalsOur Sustainability 
S
trategy Driving Innovation and  
Su
stainable GrowthPutting  P
eople FirstProtecting the E
nvironmentCreating Responsible a
nd Ethical Growth
Y D U T  S E S A CFord+  
in Action 
Compete Like a Challenger
When the semiconductor shortage disrupted 
production at our Kansas City Assembly plant, Site Manager Fred Thome had to make some quick decisions to launch the E-Transit on schedule – a critical goal in our electrification plans. In just 24 hours, his team put together a plan to focus exclusively on building the E-Transit, expertly avoiding a four-to-six-week delay. Further, by partnering with the UAW and the Vehicle Manufacturing, Engineering and New Models launch teams, they were able to keep the launch on track for our customers. 
Disrupt  
With all eyes, even the U.S. President’s, on the reveal of the all-electric F-150 Lightning, the stakes were high. Pulled ahead by more than five months to set the stage for Capital Markets Day, a cross-functional team from across the business came together to execute an accelerated launch plan from conception to reveal night in just 10 weeks. All in, the team is bringing the advanced technologies, new ownership services, strength, and capability of the electric future to our customers much sooner than planned.Modernize
For commercial vehicle customers, fuel is a major cost, which makes fuel efficiency a major priority. That’s why Nicolas Seguin (Manager, Mobility Analytics, Global Data Insights & Analytics) and his team developed Fuel Advisor. Using Ford’s telematics platform and connected vehicle data, Fuel Advisor analyzes routes, tracks fuel consumption in real-time, and recommends where/when to refuel to save the most money. Fuel Advisor is another always-on tool, delivering value to customers long after their purchase. 
Care for Each Other 
Last year, India went through a crippling second wave of the pandemic. Hospitals ran out of medical oxygen almost immediately. So, the Ford Mobility Division in Chennai, India took it upon themselves to secure and expedite an international delivery of oxygen concentrators and cylinders with help from their Ford colleagues in China. A shipment that should have taken weeks took only a few days – and it helped save lives.