Sustainable Materials – continuedFord  
Fundamentals Our Sustainability 
St
rategy Driving Innovation and  Sus
tainable Growth Putting  Pe
ople First Protecting the En
vironment Creating Responsible an
d Ethical Growth 

CASE STUDYHP Collaboration for
Circular EconomyStrategy
Ford is continuing to drive the future of 
automotive 3D printing, this time teaming up with HP to innovatively recycle spent 3D printer powders and parts turning them into injection-molded vehicle parts – an industry first. 
The recycled materials are being used to 
ma
nufacture injection-molded fuel-line clips 
installed first on Super Duty F-250 trucks. The injection molded parts are better for the environment with no compromise in the durability and quality standards Ford and its customers demand. 
They have better chemical and moisture 
re
sistance than conventional versions, are 
lighter and cost less. The Ford research team has identified other fuel-line clips that could benefit from this innovative use of material and are migrating it to future models. 
“Finding new ways to work with sustainable 
ma
terials, reducing waste and leading the 
development of the circular economy are passions at Ford,” said Debbie Mielewski, Ford technical fellow, Sustainability. “Many companies are finding great uses for 3D printing technologies, but, together with HP, we’re the first to find a high-value application for waste powder that likely would have gone to landfill, transforming it into functional and durable auto parts.” Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) Research Our LCA-bas
 ed studies evaluate potential environmental 
implications of vehicle raw materials and manufacturing; for example, aluminum production and recycling, recycled polymers, cradle-to-gate impacts of lithium-ion batteries, environmental benefits of using second-life EV batteries, and additive manufacturing. 
In the EU, we are preparing for expected regulations 
rel
ated to LCAs. 
Recycling Batteries with Redwood Batteries are at the heart of our electrification strategy. We a
re collaborating with Redwood Materials to integrate 
battery recycling into our domestic battery strategy. Redwood’s recycling technology can recover, on average, more than 95% of strategic materials such as nickel, cobalt, lithium, and copper. 
These materials can be recycled and remanufactured in a 
cl
osed-loop where Redwood produces anode copper foil 
and cathode active materials for future battery production. Using domestically produced battery materials from as much recycled content as available, will help ensure valuable materials in products re-enter the supply chain, reducing our reliance on the existing commodities supply chain and overseas component manufacturing that will be quickly overwhelmed by industry demand. 
Longer-term, Ford and Redwood plan to work together on 
th
e best approach to collect and disassemble end-of-life 
batteries from Ford’s electric vehicles for recycling and remanufacturing to help reduce the cost associated with battery components and raw materials to manufacture all-new batteries. Minimizing Substance of Concern We also work to minimize substances of concern in ou
r products and facilities. We have developed a list 
of targeted chemicals compiled from international, authoritative sources and engage suppliers to reduce these substances through process efficiencies, product replacements, or reformulation. 
à Read more in our GRI Index in our ESG Data Book Our work with Redwood will, 
by design, help ensure the infrastructure is in place to cost-effectively recycle end-of-life Ford batteries to create a robust domestic materials stream and drive down the cost of electric vehicles.” 
Lisa Drake, Vice President,  
EV Industrialization – Ford Model e 
What is a typical vehicle 
Around 40,000  parts… 
using 1,000  materials… 
and 10,000  chemical substances… 17% 
plastics,  
elastomers, textiles  
(area to improve) 4%
other 
75% 
metals  (already highly recycled) 4% 
liquids  (already 
recycled or reused)
97  |  Ford Integrated Sustainability and Financial Report 2022
Contents