Water Use and Stewardship – continuedFord  
Fundamentals Our Sustainability 
Strategy Driving Innovation and  Sustainable Growth Putting  People First Protecting the Environment Creating Responsible and Ethical Growth 
Water use and recycling are occurring at Ford plants 
around the world. We continue to integrate more water-efficient processes and technologies as we work to further decrease our water consumption. 
Absolute water was down nearly 9% from the year  
prior and down 27% from the 2019 strategy baseline – 
an almost 78% reduction from the initial 2000  
water strategy. *
 
*Data updated May 23, 2022.Reducing Operational Water Use However, these reductions were largely attributed to vehicle manufacturing down time associated with the global microchip shortage. 
Our South Africa Silverton Plant has the aspirational 
goal of being net zero and carbon neutral as well as full water recycling. Our CDP A List achievements 
Ford earned a place on the CDP “A List” for protecting water security again in 2021. We have received an A score rating from CDP for water reduction for seven years in a row and are one of only 119 companies globally 
to earn such an award for water security. We were also on CDP’s Climate Change “A list” for the third straight year. We are one of the two North American OEM to obtain double A List status. 
Water Strategy Progression 
Efficiencies Recycling/ 
Water Reuse Alternative 
Water Source Freshwater for 
Domestic Use Only Reduction in 
Alternative 
Water Source Elimination of Water
 for Manufacturing 
Processes Clean Water for All 
(Positive Impact) 
Version 1 
Efficiency (external metric) 
Recycle/Reuse (track) 
Metric: Incoming water (per unit) 
Tracked: Recycle/reuse (absolute) Version 2 
Efficiency (external metric) 
Recycle/Reuse (track) 
Alternative Water Source (metric) Aspirational goals: –Freshwater for Domestic use
–Zero water for Manufacturing
Metric: Incoming water (per unit) 
Tracked: Recycle/reuse (absolute)  
   % Freshwater Version 3 
Efficiency (external metric) 
Recycle/Reuse (track) 
Alternative Water Source (metric) Aspirational goals: –Freshwater for Domestic use
–Zero water for Manufacturing
–Ecosystem Performance
–Water Discharge QualityMetric: Incoming Freshwater (absolute) 
Tracked: Recycle/reuse (absolutes)  
% Freshwater (water stressed) Ecosystem Performance
–Water Discharge Quality 
= Aspirational Goal V1V1
V2V1
V2
V3
CASE STUDYFord India’s Drive for Zero
Water Consumption
At Ford’s Chennai Vehicle Assembly and Engine 
Plant, freshwater consumption is down to an incredible 1.17 m
3 per vehicle – from 7.3 m3 per 
vehicle only a decade ago. Having identified an alternate source of water to treat, for use in non- production activities, the smart water efficiency processes are used to recycle almost 100% of industrial wastewater for use in manufacturing. 
Ford’s Sanand Vehicle Assembly & Engine 
Plant in Gujarat has zero water discharge, with a 110,000 m
3 rain water harvesting pond 
used for pallet washing, irrigation, and in the cooling towers. 
Ford’s Global Business Technology & Business 
Center in Chennai (GTBC) can also claim zero discharge, thanks to its 100% reuse of treated wastewater for dual plumbing, horticulture, and cooling tower chiller. Ford GTBC – opened in 2019 – earned its Platinum green building rating at launch; the highest possible certification for sustainable buildings. The globally recognized certificate not only factors in water conservation but also sustainable design, architecture, and building material resources; energy conservation including use of renewable energy resources; indoor environment quality; and innovation and development