Human Capital and Diversity, Equity and Inclusion – continuedFord  
FundamentalsOur Sustainability 
St
rategy Driving Innovation and  Sus
tainable GrowthPutting  Pe
ople FirstProtecting the En
vironmentCreating Responsible an
d Ethical Growth
We deployed a new set of global talent assessments to 
help identify capability gaps across the organization, in the context of Ford+. In response, new developmental experiences for executives and people leaders are being designed and implemented. From a learning standpoint, focus areas include digital transformation, DEI, and new ways of working. 
We have begun to replicate the Ford Software Academy 
mo
del across other areas, including Leadership and 
Manufacturing. The transformation from internal-combustion-engine to electric vehicles demonstrates the opportunity to upskill and reskill our employees as part of a Just Transition strategy, as well as remaining competitive in the industry. 
à
Read more about the Software Academy on p.60
The Leadership Academy now includes a collection of learning journeys specifically designed to address each leader’s needs based on where they are in the leadership lifecycle. Each journey promises a fulfilling experience designed to Care for, Inspire, and Empower our leaders. The Ford Leader Experience (FLX), the journey for those making the transition to leadership at Ford, focuses on self-awareness as well as the mindsets and skill sets needed to develop others and build a high-performing team. 
Mentoring is also a key strategy to engage our employees 
an
d help them grow. 2022 brings the launch of 
Mentoring@Ford , a global online tool to match employees 
with a mentor or a mentee. 
In 2022, we will also focus on launching our Professional 
De
velopment Journey for every employee, independent 
of level, skill team, or region. The self directed learning guide aims to help employees excel in the skills needed to take ownership of and navigate their career and achieve success. The program will focus on four key skill set areas and spotlight the crucial Foundational Skills of self-awareness, growth mindset, and learning agility.Developing Skilled Trades Our commitment to talent development is also il
lustrated in the development of our skilled trades 
workforce. Ford has committed $ 5 million  in ongoing 
capital investment into the UAW-Ford Technical Training Center (TTC). In partnership with local community colleges, local, state and federal agencies, and union leaders, the TTC is a world-class center for apprentice training development and skilled trades recruiting and training. In 2021, almost 1,800 participants utilized training at the TTC as part of their development