Climate Change – continuedFord  
Fundamentals Our Sustainability 
St
rategy Driving Innovation and  Sus
tainable Growth Putting  Pe
ople First Protecting the En
vironment Creating Responsible an
d Ethical Growth 
commercial vehicles and heavy-duty vehicles. We 
continue to optimize these benefits in our EcoBlue and Powerstroke offerings. 
In Europe, the 2.0-liter Ford EcoBlue diesel combines the 
refi
nement and performance traditionally associated with 
Ford diesel, with emission control solutions capable of addressing the challenge of Real Driving Emissions (RDE). The Kuga, Transit, and Transit Custom offer a mild hybrid version of the 2.0-liter EcoBlue, completing the lineup of efficient powertrains and adding an electrified option, with further improved fuel economy and Auto Start/Stop. 
Advanced Transmissions and Drivelines 
We continue to optimize our transmissions by upgrading ele
ctronic controls to improve fuel economy and 
emissions. We have introduced a 7-speed automatic transmission for Ford Fiesta and Puma (including mild-hybrid variants), while most Ford vehicles will continue to use the 8-speed automatic transmissions for front-wheel-drive vehicles, and a 10-speed automatics for rear-wheel-drive vehicles. Our transmission team is now shifting focus to develop innovative technology for electrified vehicles. 
Alternative Fuels and Powertrains 
Alternative fuel vehicles enable our customers to reduce th
eir CO2 footprint during the transition to electrification. 
Depending on infrastructure, technology development, policy, and customer acceptance, our path toward a long-term carbon-neutral portfolio will be powered by some combination of electricity, hydrogen, and hydrocarbon fuels from sustainable sources. Examples of hydrocarbon fuels are sustainable biofuels and fuels synthesized from electricity, water, and carbon. Synthetic fuels made from electricity are often called “e-fuels.” We anticipate that different regions will adopt different solutions and different mixes of electricity, hydrogen, and hydrocarbon fuels. Alternative fuel vehicles can reduce GHGs on a well-to-wh
eels basis, which includes emissions from both 
producing and consuming the fuels. Compared to conventional gasoline (E10) vehicles, GHG emissions are about 15 % lower for diesel and compressed natural gas (CNG) vehicles, 25% lower for B20 (20% biodiesel blend) and 30% lower for E85 (85% ethanol from corn). Even more reduction is possible with FCVs (50% lower GHGs using hydrogen from steam methane reforming) and EVs (60% lower when charged with U.S. average grid electricity). When hydrogen and electricity are produced using carbon-free energy, the in-use GHG reduction is up to 100% on a well-to-wheels basis. 
We offer our customers many vehicles that are capable 
of usin
g these reduced-GHG fuels. All our diesel vehicles 
are compatible with low-level biodiesel blends (B20 in U.S., B7 in Europe). Also in Europe, our Transit, TransitCustom, Transit Courier, Transit Connect, and Rangerare compatible with paraffinic diesel (EN 15940) suchas HVO/E-diesel. Paraffinic diesel can be blended withstandard fossil diesel fuel resulting in up to 33%renewable content