
Ford
FundamentalsOur SustainabilitySt
rategy Driving Innovation and Sus
tainable GrowthPuttingPe
ople FirstProtecting theEn
vironmentCreating Responsiblean
d Ethical Growth
Employee Health, Safety and Wellbeing
Caring for each other is core to Ford. At Ford 
Motor Company, we strive to put people first and create a culture that’s focused on doing the right thing — and that includes employee health, safety, and wellbeing. 
After all, our most valuable asset is our people. From a 
strong and caring response to COVID-19 to ensuring a safe and healthy work environment on site and at home, health, safety, and wellbeing are an essential part of the Ford culture. 
Caring for Our People
Ford is a Fortune 500 company with a family feel. Promoting safety, health, and wellbeing is a collective effort, and everyone at Ford plays an essential role. Following workplace health and safety guidelines is our way of contributing to the broader community. However, simply complying with applicable laws and regulations is not enough. That’s why many of our internal standards go beyond what’s required to meet our commitment to our workforce in all our locations. As a salient human rights issue, not only are we focused on physical health and safety, but our employees’ mental health and wellbeing are a priority as well. 
Occupational Health and Safety
Safety at Ford Motor Company is guided by our Health an
d Safety Commitment, “Our Most Valuable Asset is our 
People, there can be No Compromise.” This commitment is the basis of our safety culture and applies to all employees, contractors, and visitors performing work at our locations globally. Employees at every level are responsible and accountable for t
he company’s overall safety initiatives and 
performance. Safety performance is managed by Senior Leadership through Plant Operation Reviews (POR), Manufacturing Safety Councils (MSC), and Plant Safety Review Board meetings (SPRB). 
We continually monitor and improve workplace safety 
th
rough our internal Safety Operating System (SOS). 
Safety performance is measured with leading and lagging indicators. The leading indicator is Global Corrective Action Completion Percentage, this tracks the closure of corrective actions by due date. Lagging indicator is Global Lost-Time Case Rate. 
à Read more in the Human Rights Report
Safety Operating System The global Safety Operating System (SOS) is an int
ernal tool that ensures the work environment 
within our facilities is safe for our employees and meets or exceeds all regulatory and Company safety requirements. It provides a structured framework that enables the delivery of consistent results by ensuring the SOS principles are an ongoing, proactive process which is directed by leadership. 
The process validates that each global manufacturing 
fa
cility has the capability and the adherence to 
meet our safety requirements. The SOS is designed to prevent and reduce incidents through the implementation of the different elements such as: Incident Investigation and Analysis, Training, Risk Assessment, Emergency Preparedness, and other sections which incorporate the health and safety of our employees daily. The results of each location’s SOS self-assessment are reviewed globally by the Manufacturing Vice President, each Manufacturing Director in their Manufacturing Safety Council meetings, and at each facility during their plant Safety Process Review Board meetings. The Safety Operating System continues to mature and adjust as new standards and processes are added to our facilities and the use of technology is expanded. 
Our SOS is designed to prevent and reduce incidents. 
In a
ddition, we have internal hazard identification, risk 
assessment, and incident investigation processes implemented throughout our organization. Requirements pertain to contractors and all personnel on Ford majority-owned facilities, including Pre Task Analysis (PTA) identifying work hazards and mitigation, in case of occurrence. All PTAs are monitored by Ford. Contractors are instructed to report any job hazards to their supervisor and Ford representative