Data Privacy and Cybersecurity As we continue to develop and produce vehicles with inc
reased connectivity, the scope and severity of risks 
presented by cyber threats to vehicle operating and security systems have increased dramatically, requiring constant vigilance to protect against intrusions and potential disruptions. We take cyber threats very seriously and regularly audit our cybersecurity capabilities. 
To support and strengthen our global data privacy 
init
iatives, we have adopted the Automotive Consumer 
Privacy Protection Principles developed by the Alliance for Automotive Innovation. We are actively engaged with the Automotive Cybersecurity Industry Consortium (ACIC), a collaboration formed by the auto industry, research organizations, and government to strengthen cybersecurity in the automotive sector. The ACIC researches, develops, evaluates, and improves cybersecurity by addressing critical infrastructure needs in automotive systems. We are also a founding member of the Information Sharing and Analysis Center (Auto-ISAC), which gathers, analyzes, and shares information to combat cyber-related threats and weaknesses. 
In 2021, Ford hired Rebecca Pagani as our first Chief 
Pr
ivacy Officer, demonstrating our commitment to 
protecting customer and company data. We also maintain an industry-leading cybersecurity insu
rance program with many of the world’s largest 
and most respected insurance companies. 
Data Insight and Analytics 
Harnessing the data provided by connected vehicles an
d using it to create even better experiences continues 
to be a key priority as vehicle connectivity becomes more prevalent. Our 1,615-strong Global Data, Insight and Analytics (GDI&A) team uses data science and analytics – including the power of AI and machine learning (ML) –as the foundation of our innovations. This effort helpsus understand and anticipate consumer behaviorand accelerates the development of the mobility,electrification, connectivity, and self-driving solutionsthat will improve people’s lives