Safety:  Work toward a future that is free 
from vehicle crashes and workplace injuriesFord
FundamentalsOur SustainabilityStra
tegy Driving Innovation and
Sust
ainable GrowthPuttingPeo
ple FirstProtecting theEnvi
ronmentCreating Responsible
and
 Ethical Growth
Vehicle/Product Safety and Quality 
Designing and Building Safe and 
Quality Vehicles
Our customers trust us to help get them and their loved 
ones where they need to go – safely. We take that trust seriously. After all, vehicle safety and quality affects all people – from our customers, to road users, to the general public and it’s one of our salient human rights issues. We are committed to designing and building safe, quality vehicles that meet or exceed applicable laws and regulations. While we are designing and building today’s vehi
cles, we have an eye on tomorrow. We continuously 
seek to innovate and improve the safety of our products, utilizing technologies available today and exploring those being developed for the future. We aspire to a future that is crash-free. Ford has a commitment to deliver high levels of safety to our customers and employees. We design and manufacture safety into our products and services, creating vehicles that achieve the highest levels of safety in a range of real-world conditions. We are committed to meeting our customers’ needs and expectations and performing well in public crash testing assessments. We have processes and systems in place to confirm that our v
ehicles align with stringent internal guidelines on 
safety design and Ford-specified levels of performance for Public Domain tests (see our 2021 vehicle safety highlights). We regularly re-evaluate and update these guidelines, ensuring continuous improvement. 
To achieve high levels of safety performance, we conduct 
eng
ineering analyses, computer simulations and 
component, subsystem and full-vehicle crash tests at several sites in the United States and Europe, including crash-test facilities, the VIRTTEX (Virtual Test Track Experiment), and the Research and Innovation Center in Dearborn, Michigan. 
Ford’s practice is not to use animals for safety testing nor 
to as
k or fund others to do so on our behalf, unless required 
by law or where there is not an acceptable alternative for critical safety research. We will continue to be leaders in creating, developing, and validating alternative methods to proving and providing product safety