Human Capital and Diversity, Equity and Inclusion – continuedFord  
FundamentalsOur Sustainability 
Stra
tegy Driving Innovation and  Sust
ainable GrowthPutting  Peo
ple FirstProtecting the Envi
ronmentCreating Responsible and
 Ethical Growth
Gender and Racial Diversity Goals
In 2021, we created Aspirational Goals to increase the 
gen
der representation and racial diversity of our senior 
leadership. These goals are tracked quarterly by every Skill Team and Business Unit Leader. We are seeing progress in the diversity of senior leadership – an increase in women leaders globally and an increase in racial minorities in the U.S. indicate that we are on track to reach our 2025 Aspirational Goals. 
Equal Employment Opportunity
Our EEO-1 report provides a snapshot of our U.S. dem
ographics as of year-end 2021, based on occupational 
categories prescribed by the federal government that aggregate jobs with widely varying skill requirements. 
Approximately 95% of all Ford Motor Company hourly 
and 
salaried positions fall into just four of the 10 categories. 
The usefulness of this data for measuring diversity success, and for making direct comparisons to the workforce of other companies or other industries with different job structures, is therefore extremely limited. To address these shortcomings, Ford has developed a mor
e robust supplemental report that disaggregates 
technical jobs in fields such as engineering and information technology, which pose recruiting challenges that are very distinct from non-technical roles. The supplemental report also provides more nuanced breakdowns of diversity at various managerial levels. 
We are committed to equal pay for equal work. 
Emp
loyee compensation in each market should be fair 
and equitable, irrespective of gender, race, or similar personal characteristics. Equal pay for equal work applies to all forms of pay, including base salary, incentives, bonuses, and other forms of compensation. 
Read more about our equal pay policy in our 
Human Rights Report
Read more in our U.S. EEO-1 and Ford Supplemental 
Div ersity Repor
tà 
à 
Our DEI Recognitions 2021 
Awards from external organizations are 
proof points we are building the Ford 
brand around the world and help us attract 
candidates in the global competition for talent