We’re also providing opportunities for our employees 
to le
arn and share their experiences with race. The Dare 
to Care in the Living Room series has brought insight and built empathy across multiple topics including the violence against Asian Americans and the experience of being women of color. 
Giving our employees a forum to share their experiences 
and r
eaction as they manage their response to social 
injustice issues outside of Ford is important to us. We worked with our ERGs to develop wellness sessions for members on a regular cadence that catered to the needs of our diverse populations. For example, we partnered with our ERGs to offer wellbeing sessions for our employees and UAW workers after the trial of Derek Chauvin in the George Floyd murder and with our Veterans after the U.S. troop withdrawal from Afghanistan. 
On Juneteenth, a federal holiday marking the celebration 
of fr
eedom from slavery, we took action to acknowledge 
and celebrate this important moment in U.S. history by shutting down non-manufacturing operations for the first time in the company’s history. Employees stopped their work for 45 minutes for educational sessions about the importance of the day, including a video and courageous conversations. The manufacturing facilities celebrated by sharing an educational video and learning materials.Building an Inclusive WorkforceOur FordWorks inclusive hiring program helps us deliver on-
the-job training and employment opportunities to 
neurodiverse individuals. Equitable pay and continual development of FordWorks employees are core values of the program. In 2021 we were recognized by the Disability Equality Index (DEI), a joint initiative of Disability:IN and the American Association of People with Disabilities (AAPD) as a Disability Equality Index Best Place to Work, for the fifth year in a row. Our score of 100% demonstrates our adherence to leading disability inclusion practices featured in the DEI. 
Ford Empowering Diverse Abilities (FEDA) has several 
mem
bers who collaborate on accessible vehicles. 
Their collective expertise includes both hardware and software development. Emily Obert, co-president of FEDA, is an engineer who uses a wheelchair. She is part of the AV Experience Design team, and her lived experiences help inform better, more intuitive AV products and experiences