Electrification and Connectivity – continued
Ford  
FundamentalsOur Sustainability 
St
rategy Driving Innovation and  Sus
tainable GrowthPutting  Pe
ople FirstProtecting the En
vironmentCreating Responsible an
d Ethical Growth
Expanding Global Electrification Capabilities 
Our electrification plans are global, with facilities in Eu
rope gearing up for the industry-changing transition. 
100 %
of Ford’s passenger vehicles in Europe will be zero-emissions capable by 2026 and all-electric by 2030
Germany
Spearheading our advance into an all-electric future is a new $1 billion investment to modernize 
Ford’s vehicle assembly facility in Cologne, one of our largest manufacturing centers in Europe and the home of Ford of Europe. The investment will transform the existing vehicle assembly operations into the Ford Cologne Electrification Center for the manufacture of electric vehicles, Ford’s first such facility in Europe. Ford’s new European-built, volume all-electric passenger vehicle will roll off Cologne’s production line in 2023. 
Romania
We will invest $30 0 million  to build a new light 
commercial vehicle in 2023 at our Craiova 
Assembly Plant in Romania, including an all-electric version due to debut in 2024 – the first all-electric Ford volume vehicle to be built in Romania. With this all-electric version, Craiova will become the third Ford facility in Europe to take on an all-electric vehicle production. 
Spain
We are also investing in an electrified future for our Valencia, Spain, operations with the new 
2.5-liter Duratec hybrid engine that will be built at our engine plant starting in late 2022 with an increased battery pack assembly capacity. Providing a bridge to an all-electric passenger vehicle future for Europe, the Duratec hybrid engine powers the Kuga PHEV as well as the Kuga, Galaxy, and S-MAX Full Hybrid models.Turkey
All versions of the next generation Transit Custom will be built by Ford Otosan – Ford’s 
joint venture in Turkey – in Kocaeli, the home of the Ford Transit range. In addition, the joint-venture’s next generation Volkswagen 1-ton commercial vehicle also will be built in Kocaeli, adding valuable scale and enhancing the customer experience by bringing more technologies to market. Connected services co-developed with commercial vehicle customers will also be designed to enhance the customer experience and advance Ford’s continuing commercial vehicle leadership in Europe. Late in 2020, Ford Otosan announced plans to invest more than €2 billion to increase vehicle and battery pack assembly capacity production at Kocaeli. 
United Kingdom
We are investing up to £23 0 million  at our 
Halewood vehicle transmission facility, 
transforming it to build electric power units for future Ford all-electric passenger and commercial vehicles sold in Europe. This investment indicates the U.K.’s importance for high-quality automotive Power unit production – the complete all-electric assembly that replaces the engine and transmission in conventional gas or diesel engine vehicles. Halewood will be our first electric vehicle component in-house assembly site in Europe with production beginning in 2024. 
China
The first Mustang Mach-E manufactured in China officially rolled off the assembly line 
in October 2021. Manufactured at Changan Ford’s manufacturing plant in Chongqing, the locally produced Mustang Mach-E became available for delivery to customers in China by the year’s end, providing Chinese customers with the driving pleasure associated with the electric SUV. Ford inaugurated 25 electric vehicle stores in major metropolitan areas by the end of 2021 and expects to expand to 61 stores within 2022