Best practice sharing will help all dealers identify their own gaps and provide ideas on how to better acquire, develop, and retain key talent that can assist the dealership in their efforts to better represent the communities they serve. 
We leveraged dealer council and national meetings to drive
hom
e the thought “I need to represent my community.” 
Not only is it the right thing to do, but it increases business opportunities as well by enhancing customer experience for everyone who walks into the stores. For example, a Ford dealer in Texas who participated in 
our s
tudy and conducted their own internal assessment 
identified a DEI blind spot and an opportunity to ensure that Spanish speaking customers were able to be helped by dealership employees who can speak Spanish, and they also enhanced their website and social media to be in both English and Spanish languages. 
Supplier Diversity and Inclusion
Diversity and Inclusion permeates the core of our com
pany – from the diversity of our product offerings and 
global workforce, to our strategic partners, supply base, and dealers. We remain committed to support, develop, grow, and promote our diverse suppliers while expanding the economic impact and growth in the community for a more sustainable future. 
Y D U T  S E S A CA Focus on 
Software T alent 
Recruiting software talent is especially 
challenging in today’s competitive environment. Ford has embarked upon a competitive strategy to attract, develop, and retain software talent by strengthening its workforce planning capability, creating a dedicated recruiting team and implementing a comprehensive development approach. We identified capability gaps to inform recruiting and learning plans. 
New partnerships with academia have been 
dev
eloped to accelerate career readiness for 
entry level roles and with industry partners to focus on experiential learning experiences. 
In 2022 we will launch the Ford Software 
Aca
demy, designed to provide our talent with a 
space to learn, grow, collaborate, and build their capabilities. More than a collection of courses, the Ford Software Academy will be a fully realized journey, sponsored by business leaders, and built to support career-long learning. This investment in our employees will demonstrate our commitment to competing like challengers with best-in-class talent