Ford  
Fundamentals Our Sustainability 
St
rategy Driving Innovation and  Sus
tainable Growth Putting  Pe
ople First Protecting the En
vironment Creating Responsible an
d Ethical Growth 
Sustainable Materials 
Materials:  Utilize only recycled or renewable  
content in vehicle plastics 
Our commitment to using sustainable 
materials is part of our history, our present – and our future. 
Automobiles are among the world’s most recycled 
consumer products. Although many products could be 100% recycled, few are. Over 85%
15 of vehicle parts and 
materials are actually recycled and reused at their end of life with the vehicle’s metallic portion being highly recycled. Rather than focusing on end of life metal recycling which is already a great success, we focus on using recycled and renewable content in plastics and closed loop recycling. 
By using recycled and renewable materials in our vehicles’ 
de
sign, we’re reducing landfill waste and using fewer 
natural resources. 
Plastic in Vehicles 
As the amount of plastic usage in vehicles has grown, we h
ave focused on increasing the sustainability of 
plastics in our vehicles’ design with the goal of using 20% recycled and renewable plastics in new vehicle designs for North America and Europe by 2025 and 10% for China and Turkey. Our aspiration is to utilize only recycled or renewable content in vehicle plastics. 
Much of recycled and renewable content comes from 
wa
ste products generated by other industries. We use 
the ISO 14021 standard in accounting for this content, and track our progress using the highest volume variant of our nameplates. Using Recycled Materials for Vehicle Parts
 
Recycling plastics keeps waste out of landfills and decreases the consumption of natural resources and energy. We transform recycled plastic bottles into carpeting, underbody shields, and wheel liners and use post-consumer nylon and polypropylene carpeting for cylinder head covers, fans and shrouds, cam covers, and carbon canisters. 
Teams in the EU are working on our recycled content 
st
rategy as well as starting research projects like the 
Green Factory of Tomorrow, where we are improving operational efficiency and better management of natural resources and waste in our manufacturing process. 
Using Renewable Materials for Vehicle Parts 
Renewable, plant-based materials also play a role in our sust
ainability strategy. Ford currently has launched a 
dozen industry-first, plant-based materials in production vehicles since 2007, establishing a reputation as a leader in this space. These robust materials are often lighter in weight, improving fuel economy. They also sequester carbon during the plants growing phase, reducing global warming impacts, and they require less energy to manufacture. Ford first sustainable materials include soy foam, wheat straw, rice hulls, tree-based cellulose, coconut fiber, and coffee chaff. 
For example, soy seat cushions, backs and headrests have 
be
en used on every Ford North American built vehicle 
(over 18. 5 million  vehicles) for more than a decade. Bio-
based foams on Ford vehicles have collectively reduced GHG emissions by over 24 0 million  pounds using over 
730 billion  soybeans, which also produces extra revenue 
for U.S. farmers. Soy foam reduces petroleum dependence by over 5 million  pounds annually. Ford was also the first in the industry to launch wheat st
raw storage bins, rice hull filled electrical wiring covers, 
and tree-based cellulose composite armrest substrates and console substrates. 
Through a partnership with McDonald’s USA we have 
inc
orporated coffee chaff — the dried skin of the coffee 
bean – to reinforce headlamp housings. 
Our Sustainable and Emerging Materials group continues 
to p
ioneer the development of new sustainable plastic 
materials including algae fiber reinforced plastics and polymer resins made from renewable feed stocks. 
We’re testing whether the tree-based cellulose 
co
mposites, that were incorporated into Lincoln 
Continental consoles, can be used in other applications. 
Our partnership with McDonald’s and our use of ocean 
pl
astics in the Bronco Sport exemplify our approach 
to the circular economy – deriving value from waste material, or “upcycling.” Our goal is to migrate these sustainable materials to other vehicles and applications. 
Closing the Loop in Recycling 
Ford’s approach to the circular economy is not limited to j
ust parts inside the vehicle. Ford is the largest 
automotive closed-loop aluminum recycler in the world. We worked closely with our aluminum sheet suppliers 
 to create unique alloys just for closed-loop recycling. Our closed-loop system recovers aluminum scrap during parts stamping but keeps the various aluminum alloys separated so they can be recycled back into fresh alloy for new vehicles, which saves 95% of the energy that would be required to create new aluminum from raw ore. 
This closed loop recycling system is used to build the 
F-
Series, recovering up to 2 0 million  pounds of high-
strength, military-grade, aluminum alloy per month. This is how Ford maximizes aluminum recycling in our plants and minimizes the need for primary metal. 
CASE STUDYBronco Sport Parts from
100% Ocean-HarvestedPlastic is an Industry First
We are adding to our legacy of using sustainable 
materials in vehicles by being the first automaker to use 100% recycled ocean plastics to produce automotive parts. 
Wiring harness clips in Ford Bronco Sport models 
ar
e made of ocean-harvested plastic from 
discarded fishing nets. These nets are called “ghost gear” because of the number of marine animals that get trapped in them and the length of time they remain in the ocean wreaking havoc. The strength and durability of the nylon material equals that of previously used petroleum-based parts but at a cost saving, and requires less energy to produce. The ocean plastic is collected by workers in the Indian Ocean and Arabian Sea, promoting healthier marine life and providing jobs. 
“This is another example of Ford leading the 
ch
arge on sustainability,” said Jim Buczkowski, 
vice president of research and Henry Ford technical fellow. “It is a strong example of circular economy, and while these clips are small, they are an important first step in our explorations to use recycled ocean plastics for additional parts in the future.”
Always consult the Owner’s Manual before 
off-road driving, know your terrain and trail difficulty, and use appropriate safety gear.96  |  Ford Integrated Sustainability and Financial Report 2022
 
 Contents