Ford
FundamentalsOur SustainabilityStrat
egy Driving Innovation andSusta
inable GrowthPuttingPeop
le FirstProtecting theEnvir
onmentCreating Responsibleand E
thical Growth
Customer Experience, 
Marketing and Satisfaction
Improving the Customer Experience
Understanding the customer experience is 
essential for achieving the Ford+ Plan’s goal of providing distinctive, real-world solutions, always-on customer relationships, and 
ever-improving user experiences. 
Understanding the Customer 
With our insights about customer behaviors and lifestyles, we can b
uild emotional connections with customers and 
what matters most to them as they build better lives and pursue their dreams. Only through knowledge and empathy can we build customer loyalty over time. 
We understand that customers want speed, convenience, 
pers
onalization, and seamless experiences across every 
part of their lives. And when customers trust a brand, they report high levels of loyalty, opportunity for growth, and intention to recommend the brand to others. It’s not enough to offer quality products and solid services – we need to deliver fast, personalized, and trusted experiences. Every interaction, every day, is a chance to earn trust and loyalty through honesty, expertise, and care. 
Treating Customers Like Family 
It starts with valuing our customers as members of the Ford f
amily. In fact, treating customers like family is part 
of Ford’s heritage. And all of our employees play a critical role. To build a culture of customer-centricity, we are empowering our employees with new learning opportunities and tools, such as a support program that gives them quick assistance to resolve vehicle issues for themselves or their friends and family.We are on a mission to enhance the entire customer jour
ney, from the dealership to the FordPass app, and 
everything in between. Every touchpoint, from purchase through setup, repair, maintenance, and renewal, is covered as we seek to foster a network of loyal customers and brand advocates. And as we lead the electric revolution with connected, all-electric vehicles and Ford Pro’s leading commercial vehicle line-up, we are creating distinctive services that help people more easily manage EV lifestyles and businesses enjoy the advantages of electrification