Ford  
Fundamentals Our Sustainability 
Stra
tegy Driving Innovation and  Sust
ainable Growth Putting  Peo
ple First Protecting the Envi
ronment Creating Responsible and
 Ethical Growth 
Transparency, 
Ethics and Integrity 
Ethics and integrity are a big part of who we are as a company. 
We always keep ethics and compliance at the heart of our business practices, as we believe that trust in our brand is earned by acting with honesty, expertise, and care. 
That’s why we strive to provide clear policies, effective 
communication, and engaging training to make it easy for our people to do the right thing and comply with existing laws, regulations, and policies. 
These efforts indicate how important transparency is 
to Fo
rd – a key part of our culture that starts at the top 
and permeates throughout the organization. 
Serving Others with Integrity and Competence 
A company known for integrity is an invaluable quality tha
t takes years and decades to secure and reinforce. 
That’s why our Corporate Compliance, Ethics and Integrity Office provides training and communication tools to help our people comply with legal obligations and policies that maintain the highest levels of integrity. 
Upholding High Standards of Ethical Conduct and 
Com
municating Openly  
In unpredictable times, especially during such challenges as a gl
obal pandemic and supply shortages, Ford strives to 
maintain open channels in communicating with all of our stakeholders, with no surprises. For example, Ford’s Chief Executive Officer Jim Farley uses his Twitter and LinkedIn accounts to disseminate information. And, we now report monthly on vehicle production, dealer inventory, and retail sales instead of the quarterly reporting done by others in the industry. This transparency has been helpful to our investors during the worldwide semiconductor shortage. Updating our Code of Conduct Employee Code of Conduct Ford is recognized around the world as a leader in corporate ethi
cs and social responsibility, an accomplishment we are 
proud of and never take for granted. Ethical behavior begins with treating all members of our extended family of employees, suppliers, and customers with fairness and respect. It is more than compliance with the law. Our values support the cultivation of an environment that is physically and emotionally safe for all, where our differences are truly valued, and where everyone can bring their whole selves to work. 
The Code of Conduct helps Ford employees, suppliers, 
and c
ustomers around the world understand and 
embrace what we believe in and how we conduct our business, including our aspiration of becoming the world’s most trusted company. It covers areas related to human rights, the environment, and lawful business practices. It is publicly accessible and available in 12 languages. 
In 2021, we updated our Code of Conduct  to make it more 
acc
essible – it’s now on our website and in interactive digital 
formats for the general public as well as employees; it’s 
easier to understand and follow – it went from summarizing our 69 policies to clearly demonstrating 17 commitments (policies), including Ford’s We Are Committed to Protecting Hum
an Rights and the Environment policy . And it’s written 
in mor
e simplified language to increase transparency about 
what it means to work at and do business with Ford. 
à Read more in our Code of Conduct Ethical behavior begins with 
treating all members of our extended family of employees, suppliers and customers with fairness and respect