Climate Change – continuedFord  
Fundamentals Our Sustainability 
St
rategy Driving Innovation and  Sus
tainable Growth Putting  Pe
ople First Protecting the En
vironment Creating Responsible an
d Ethical Growth 
We will continue to work with partners in the public and 
private sector including the Climate Leadership Council and the Center for Climate and Energy Solutions Business and Environmental Leadership Council. Our goal is to show our leadership and advocate for stronger GHG standards, climate resiliency, and infrastructure that help remove obstacles and build the market for electric vehicles.  
Ford’s Approach and Progress T oward 
Our Aspirations 
Our current climate strategy, built on our long history of 
using science-based GHG pathways, is focused on the deep decarbonization of our value chain and aims to integrate consumer wants and needs, the possibilities of technology, and the requirements for business success. Our carbon-neutral approach analyzes information on the environment, customers, technology, legislation, energy, competitive approaches, and life cycle assessments (LCAs). As climate science and technology develops, we will further refine and adjust our science-based GHG targets to accelerate our progress. 
Here are some key highlights on Ford’s progress and 
ap
proach. More detailed information can be found in 
the Reducing our Vehicle CO2 section below. 
Vehicles Electrification is a key strategy to address the urgency of c
limate change. However, for the transition to 
electrification to be successful, we must make the electric vehicles that our customers want and demand. We are responding by taking our most iconic, popular vehicles electric – the Mustang Mach-E, F-150 Lightning, and E-Transit. 
Currently we are on track to achieve 50% fully electric 
ve
hicle sales globally by 2030, and 100% fully electric 
passenger vehicle sales in Europe. Two-thirds of commercial vehicle sales in Europe will be all-electric or plug-in hybrid by 2030 and all commercial vehicles in Europe will be zero emission by 2035. 
Operations 
Our operational goals include both Scope 1 and 2 em
issions for manufacturing and non-manufacturing 
locations. To achieve these goals, we are focusing on improving efficiency and increasing our use of carbon-free electricity. 
In addition to our 2035 SBTi target, we have committed 
to r
educe our global manufacturing Scope 1 and 2 GHG 
emissions by 18% by 2023 from a 2017 base year. 
As an example, our new BlueOval City assembly plant 
in Te
nnessee is designed to be carbon neutral, send zero 
waste to landfill, and use freshwater only for human consumption at the start of production in 2025. 
 
Helping Our Dealers to Reduce Carbon Footprint In Germany, we support our dealers with energy 
co
nsulting services to reduce their carbon footprint, 
resulting in 5,000 tons of CO2 reduction for 200 dealers. 
Suppliers Our new Supplier Code of Conduct mandates that all Tier 1 pr
oduction suppliers minimize their impact on climate 
change aligned with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (Paris Agreement), striving towards carbon neutrality. It also requires that our suppliers enforce a similar code of practice and require that their subcontractors do the same. The Supplier Code of Conduct requires suppliers to: 
•Report their Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions and waterusage data to Ford if requested. 
•  Establish science-based GHG reduction targets, action plans, and transparent reporting mechanisms. This year we conducted a supplier survey to identify each supplier’s GHG reduction targets. If they did not yet have one, they are required to submit their targets by the end of 2022. Then we can develop a joint roadmap with our suppliers on our journey towards carbon neutrality. 
We have also established internal targets for increasing 
en
gagement with our supply chain partners, including 
building on our successful CDP Supply Chain reporting program and our Partnership for A Cleaner Environment (PACE) programs. 
Supporting Our Customers 
Ford is building the future of zero-emissions vehicles an
d breaking constraints to lead the electric revolution, 
investing $50 billion from 2022 through 2026 in electric vehicles and the batteries that power them. We’re not only electrifying our signature nameplates in areas where millions of customers already rely on Ford vehicles, we’re showing our customers the clear advantages of electric vehicles – from sustainability to performance, power, and digital integration, Ford is creating capacity, capability, and convenience in our vehicles that were never possible before. 
F-150 Lightning Charges into the Future Electrification amplifies the attributes our customers lo
ve, such as performance, capability and convenience. 
For example, F-Series, America’s best-selling truck for 4 5 year s, charges into the future with the F-150 
Lightning – a powerhouse that delivers a targeted 563 horsepower and 775 lb.-ft. of torque
6 – the most torque 
of any F-150 ever – a smooth, quiet, and exhilarating drive, a high-tech front trunk, and the ability to power your home for at least three days, if needed. 
Within our new line-up, disruptive technology allows us to e
nrich the customer experience and make the 
transition to electric vehicles simple. 
Ford Europe 
Ford of Europe’s clear vision to be “All in on EVs” is central to us achieving our sustainability objectives. Not only does it address the largest portion of our CO
2 emissions as a region, it provides a sustainable 
foundation and catalyst for further change, as we drive forward our carbon neutrality plans for our facilities, supply chain and transportation network. 
We are well on the way to achieving our objective of 
76
% reduction in scope 1 and 2 emissions and 100% 
carbon-free electricity in our manufacturing operations by 2035. We are now focused on developing plans to address one our biggest challenges, how to transition our extensive, global supply base to carbon neutrality. 
100 %
carbon-free electricity in our manufacturing operations by 2035
85  |  Ford Integrated Sustainability and Financial Report 2022
Contents