Path to Autonomous Services Coming to Life:  
Ly
ft and Walmart
Ford remains focused on large-scale deployment of au
tonomous vehicles as a service – ride-hailing to move 
people and delivery to move goods – across multiple U.S. cities starting in our launch city markets of Austin, Texas, Miami, and Washington, D.C. 
While we continue to improve the technology and build 
a ro
bust self-driving system with our partner Argo AI, 
we have also made progress over the last year in bringing 
these services to life through our collaboration with Lyft, 
one of the largest transportation networks in the U.S., and Walmart, the world’s largest retailer. 
Together, with Lyft and Argo AI, we announced in 2021 that we are deploying Ford autonomous vehicles, with safety drivers, on the Lyft network in Miami and in Austin, available this year. As vehicles are deployed, Lyft users within defined service areas will be able to select a Ford autonomous vehicle powered by the Argo Autonomy Platform to hail a ride. 
This unique collaboration brings together all of the parts 
ne
cessary to create a viable autonomous ride hailing 
service, including the autonomous technology, vehicle fleet, and transportation network needed to support a scalable business and exceptional experience for riders. Thi
s initial deployment phase will lay the groundwork 
for scaling operations across multiple markets over the next five years. 
For delivery, we are working with Walmart and Argo AI 
to d
eploy an autonomous vehicle delivery service in 
Miami, Austin, Texas, and Washington, D.C. — Walmart’s first multi-city autonomous delivery collaboration in the U.S. The delivery service will use Ford autonomous vehicles equipped with the Argo Autonomy Platform to deliver Walmart orders to customers. This multi-city service makes it possible for customers to place orders online for groceries and other popular items, while providing autonomous deliveries directly to their homes. By testing and developing autonomous technology for ur
ban areas, where customer demand is high, we are 
demonstrating the potential for autonomous vehicle delivery services at scale. 
For Mobility Solutions: The City:One Program 
The City:One program uses a community-centered ap
proach to develop innovative mobility solutions that 
address safety, sustainability, equity, and accessibility to support the ever-changing mobility needs of cities and their residents. 
In 2019-2020, we hosted City:One Challenges in four 
lo
cations: Indianapolis, Michigan Central Station in 
Detroit, Austin, and Mexico City. In working with those communities, we generated more than 400 proposals and secured nearly $ 1 million  in funding to support 
tangible and equitable mobility pilots for residents, workers, and visitors. In 2021, multiple Challenge winners began activating their mobility pilots to deliver real-world impact. 
For example, in coordination with 20 local Detroit partners 
an
d eight high school students from Mercy Education 
Project, one of three Michigan Central Station City:One Challenge winners, the group launched a mobility hub in Roosevelt Park, Detroit. The young women, with community input, created a space that provided a welcome, safe environment with access to and information about mobility options including bikeshare and bike racks; access to Spin scooters and charges; and real-time updates on transit, as well as extensive lighting, murals developed by local artists and a waiting area with WiFi, charging, and seating. The hub also offered COVID-19 vaccinations and testing through a partnership with Ford and Wayne Health/Wayne State University