
Global Challenges and our Response – continued
à 
à 
à à 
à 
26  |  Ford Integrated Sustainability and Financial Report 2022
Contents Ford  
Fu
ndamentalsOur Sustainability 
St
rategy Driving Innovation and  Sus
tainable GrowthPutting  Pe
ople FirstProtecting the En
vironmentCreating Responsible an
d Ethical Growth
Our team has been successful in inventing 
new sustainable materials because we are willing to try things in the lab that others aren’t. We had been warned that soy foam wouldn’t work, and today it’s in every Ford North American-built vehicle. Sustainability should be a consideration in every aspect of everything we do, and we need to be open to new, sometimes seemingly crazy ideas. It is tempting to think something won’t work and give up before you’ve started. If we could change that notion, then we can do anything!”
Debbie Mielewski,  
Ford’s Technical Fellow of Sustainability
Designing truly incredible electric 
and software-driven vehicles – with experiences customers can’t even imagine yet – requires a clean-sheet approach. We are creating an organization that benefits from all of Ford’s know-how and capabilities, but that can move with speed and unconstrained ambition to create revolutionary new products.”
Doug Field,  
Chief EV and Digital Systems Officer, Ford Model eExpanding Access and Mobility
We are investing to help make mobility more seamless an
d accessible, while improving safety, efficiency, and 
sustainability. While the policy and legal framework around autonomous vehicles has not been fully developed, we remain focused on improving the technology, building a robust self-driving system, and offering affordable mobility solutions. 
We are also considering the related issues of safety and 
da
ta security. First, our customers and other stakeholders 
must trust that autonomous vehicles will operate as designed and vehicle safety is a top priority. Second, Ford has more access than ever before to data coming from apps, location services, and driving habits, and the opportunity to pull data from customers will only increase. If data is handled correctly, we have the opportunity to improve our customer relationships. It is imperative that our customers trust our ability to protect their data and ensure their privacy. This is why we adopt a holistic approach that includes policies focused on transparency, responsible data handling and use, and choice. 
Read more in:
Mobility Solutions and Autonomous Vehicles section on p.50
Data Protection, Privacy and Security section on p.102Data Privacy Policy
Supporting a Just Transition 
Ford identified addressing Just Transition as part of how we m
anage climate change, one of our salient human 
rights issue. We are developing a strategy where workers, communities, and our supply chain, as well as our customers, are being considered in the transition to a net-zero economy. 
Read more in:
Human Rights and Supply Chain Management section on p.65
Human Rights Report
Building a Diverse and Resilient Workforce
For decades Ford has enjoyed a strong employment 
reputation among traditional industrial companies. With the significant shift in skills needed to lead the electric revolution, we must prepare our workforce and compete for new talent in a more diverse, digital, and tech workforce. 
We’re investing more than $52 5 million  in the United 
St
ates over the next five years to train auto-technicians 
for electric vehicles. And we’re developing programs 
through which our employees can develop and maintain the skills they need. 
Read more in:
Human Capital and Diversity, Equity and Inclusion  section on p.55Protecting Human Rights
Human rights and due diligence demands on our business inc
luding our supply chain continues to drive improvements 
in the industry. In 2020, the World Benchmarking Alliance recognized Ford as one of the leading companies in supply chain management and the leading automotive company in performance against the Corporate Human Rights 
Ben
chmark (CHRB) . 
However, the average score for automotive companies in 
th
e CHRB-benchmarked sector indicates improvements 
in respecting human rights can be made particularly in demonstrating management of risks within their supply chain.   
Read more in our Human Rights Report
Pursue DreamsBuilding Ethical and Sustainable Supply ChainsAs we strengthen our global sustainability commitment, we a
re faced with the challenge of bringing our global 
suppliers with us. With approximately 4,500 Tier 1 supplier sites around the world, our robust and sustainable supply chain is of crucial importance, with transparency the key to monitor supply and performance