Climate Change – continuedFord  
Fundamentals Our Sustainability 
Strategy Driving Innovation and  Sus
tainable Growth Putting  Pe
ople First Protecting the En
vironment Creating Responsible an
d Ethical Growth 
At Ford, we understand the urgency 
of climate change, and we have a role to play. We are delivering exciting electric vehicles for the many rather than the few. As we take leadership of the electric vehicle revolution, our goal is to not only build high-quality vehicles at scale, but to do so in a way that creates a positive impact on people and the environment.” 
Cynthia Williams, Global Director Sustainability,  
Homologation and Compliance Built-in charging solutions route customers to nearby 
charging stations, recommend where to charge on trips and provide easy access and payment via FordPass  
for a s 
eamless customer experience. 2 
For public consumption, the BlueOval Charging network has over 250,000 charge points in Europe – and it’s growing — helping give customers confidence that they can get where they want to go. In Europe, Ford is a founding member and shareholder in the IONITY consortium – delivering high-power charging stations along motorway routes and at key European locations. The number of IONITY high-power charging points will more than quadruple to around 7,000 by 2025. 
Read more in our TCFD Report 
Read more in our U.S. Political Engagement report à 
à à
Read more in our We Are Committed to Protecting Human 
Rights and the Environment policy 
Reducing Our Vehicle Carbon Footprint  
Life Cycle Assessment of Our Vehicles 
Cutting GHG emissions associated with the use of our ve
hicles is central to our goal of carbon neutrality by 2050. 
We use a range of analytical tools to identify and measure the potential environmental and cost impacts of our vehicles or services over their life cycle, from the acquisition of raw materials, through vehicle production, distribution and use, to end-of-life disposal or recycling. Understanding these impacts helps us reduce our environmental footprint. 
In terms of GHG impact, vehicle use is the main source 
of e
missions. Use-phase CO2 emissions depend on many 
factors, including the energy source and the way the vehicles are driven. Using the GHG Protocol methodology and preliminary data to estimate emissions from vehicle on-road use, we calculate that our vehicles sold in 2021 will produce approximately 250 million metric tons of 
CO
2e from fuel production and combustion over a 
150,000 mile lifetime, on a well-to-wheels basis. A Portfolio Approach 
Vehicles Fuel Customers 
Accessible lower-carbon options: 
•Advanced propulsion options 
•Electrified vehicles 
•Fuel cell vehicles 
•New engine/transmission technologies 
•Aerodynamic improvements 
•Weight reductions Developing vehicles that use lower-carbon 
fue
ls: 
•Electricity 
•Biofuels 
•Compressed natural gas (CNG) 
•Liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) 
•Hydrogen 
•Carbon-neutral e-fuels Providing options for different vehicles and fuels, 
an
d how those vehicles will be maintained 
Promoting “eco-driving” through training, in
formation, and in-vehicle technology 

CASE STUDY Supply Chain Responsibility
Supply chain responsibility is best addressed in 
partnership with other manufacturers and suppliers. Thus, the German Association of the Automotive Industry (VDA) founded the Responsible Supply Chain Initiative (RSCI) with 14 founding members from the automotive industry. We are working with the VDA and others to improve our understanding of supply chain risks and to help the suppliers with a consistent approach. As a result, RSCI is developing a standardized test procedure for evaluating the sustainability performance of automotive suppliers. RSCI is launching initial pilot assessments in 2022. The RSCI audit platform will facilitate suppliers’ sharing of audit results and avoiding any duplication of efforts. 
Minimizing our Supply Chain Impacts 
We rely on thousands of suppliers to provide ma
terials, components, and services for our 
vehicles. By sharing what has worked well at Ford, we can help them cut costs, improve quality, and become more sustainable. We engage with our supply chain to understand our collective environmental footprint and work with selected sup
pliers through target setting and cascading best 
practices to reduce their carbon emissions, energy consumption, water use, and waste. 
By sharing successful initiatives with nearly 80 key 
sup
pliers through our Partnership for a Cleaner 
Environment (PACE) program, we are cascading best practices through our supply chain. So far, our suppliers have implemented projects in at least 13 countries: United States, Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China, Czech Republic, Germany, India, Mexico, Poland, Serbia, South Africa, and Thailand. Around 182 million  gallons of water savings are expected 
between 2020 and 2030 through PACE suppliers. FastPACE, a streamlined version of PACE, is helping reduce the impact of key partners in China, India, Thailand, and South Africa. Supplier participation has increased from 2020 to 2021 by over 60%. As a result, FastPACE suppliers are on track to save an estimated 4,909 metric tons of CO
2 and 2 4 million  
gallons of water over the next three years