Climate Change – continued
 
 Ford  
Fundamentals Our Sustainability 
Strategy Driving Innovation and  Sustainable Growth Putting  People First Protecting the Environment Creating Responsible and Ethical Growth 
Although we focus on improving tailpipe or tank-to-
wheels (TTW) emissions, we also continue to study well-to-wheels (WTW) impacts in keeping with our carbon-neutrality aspiration. These include the production (well-to-tank, or WTT) and consumption (TTW) of fuel and electricity during vehicle use. WTW emissions vary between vehicle, engine type, and energy source. Our Scope 3 SBTi vehicle CO
2 target is based on 
WTW emissions. 
We acknowledge the fact that WTT emissions are part of 
the total vehicle life cycle; however, these emissions are beyond our direct control. We, therefore, look to address these impacts in collaboration with a range of partners, including fuel and electricity producers, infrastructure developers, and governments. Advances in Engine and Transmission Technologies Gasoline Engines As we develop our electric vehicles, we are ensuring that our internal combustion engine (ICE) powertrains continue to provide a desirable balance of performance, fuel economy, and durability while meeting increasingly stringent criteria emissions requirements. Our EcoBoost engines are deployed across nearly 100% of the portfolio, and combine engine downsizing, turbocharging, direct fuel injection, and twin-independent variable cam timing to improve fuel economy without compromising performance. 
We’ve recently coupled our 3.5L EcoBoost engine 
with hybrid technology in the PowerBoost™ Full Hybrid F150, offering significant fuel savings along with Electrification represents the most 
transformative change of our industry in over 10 0 year s and at 
Ford of Europe, we are leading the way in our ambition to create a sustainably profitable all-electric future. We’re doing this with both passenger vehicles and commercial vehicles, providing customer choice while delivering CO
2 performance.” 
Stuart Rowley, President 
Ford of Europe 
enhanced capability, such as providing exportable power. 
Additionally, we’ve incorporated advanced full and plug-
in hybrid systems in multiple vehicles globally, including our new Maverick hybrid truck, achieving EPA-estimated 42 miles per gallon in the city  for under $20,000 in the 
U.S. In Europe, the Kuga is number 1 in its segment for all plug-in hybrid electric vehicles (PHEVs). *
*2.5L Hybrid powertrain. Actual mileage will vary. 
Diesel Engines Modern diesel engines offer reduced CO
2 emissions and 
fuel consumption, especially in commercial applications requiring heavy load and towing capability. Thanks to advanced diesel engine technology, they can achieve 20–30% better fuel economy than comparable gasoline engines in specific markets and segments, such as light  95 %+
of our emissions are from vehicle use, facilities and suppliers. Now reporting WTW vs. TTW vehicle emissions In keeping with our recently approved science based targets
87  |  Ford Integrated Sustainability and Financial Report 2022
CDP Carbon: Ford 2021 Reported Emissions
Vehicles-tailpipe  
(TTW): 77%
Vehicles-energy production  
(WTT): 7%
Supplier s: 13%
Misc: 2%
  
 
Facilitie s: 1%
Well to Wheel (WTW) = Well to Tank (WTT) + Tank to Wheel (TTW)
Contents