Ford  
Fundamentals Our Sustainability 
Strategy Driving Innovation and  Sustainable Growth Putting  People First Protecting the Environment Creating Responsible and Ethical Growth 
Water Use and 
Stewardship 
Water:  Make zero water withdrawals  
for manufacturing processes 
Use freshwater only for human consumption 
Water is fundamental to human existence – 
and vital to so many aspects of our operations. We have a responsibility to use and manage water sources efficiently and sustainably. 
à Read more about this Salient Human Rights issue in our 
Human Rights Report 
Our Water Strategy 
Our long-term approach reflects the need to understand water challenges in their local context, with extraction policies and practices designed to make sure our operations do not adversely affect other users’ access to water. 
Our 2025 Global Manufacturing Water Strategy, the third iteration of our water strategy, aims to continue Ford’s position as a leader in water reduction in manufacturing processes and secure optimal freshwater availability in local communities. It targets a 15% reduction in absolute freshwater usage. Ford has already reduced its annual freshwater consumption by over 78% since 2000; that’s over 12. 5 billion  gallons of water saved compared to 2000 
usage. Our global water conservation actions are equal to providing a year’s worth of water to 1. 4 million  homes. 
We will continue to work towards our existing aspirational goals of freshwater for human consumption only and zero Tap Water
Wastewater
(from an offsite location)Salt Water
(oceans and seas)Lake Water River Water Groundwater RainwaterFreshwater
Alternative WaterWater Use at Our Facilitieswater withdrawals for manufacturing. This includes 
establishing local ecosystem performance goals and 
improving water discharge quality, with a focus on direct discharge plants. We are examining how water cycling impacts communities and how to better emulate the natural system. 
Our new plant in Tennessee aspires to make zero 
freshwater withdrawals for assembly processes by incorporating water reuse and recycling systems. Stakeholders responded positively to our goal of preserving water and striving for full water recycling. 
What Is Freshwater? 
Freshwater, the main source of drinking water around the world, is recognized as essential for human life and wellbeing in Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standard 303. The GRI defines freshwater as surface water, butour definition is broader, including both surface waterand groundwater