Ford  
Fundamentals Our Sustainability 
St
rategy Driving Innovation and  Sus
tainable Growth Putting  Pe
ople First Protecting the En
vironment Creating Responsible an
d Ethical Growth 
Carbon-Free Electricity 
and Energy Future 
Energy:  Use 100 percent carbon-free 
electricity in all manufacturing by 2035 
Our goal of achieving 100 percent carbon-
free electricity in all manufacturing by 2035 will be bolstered by the potential dedicated investments in wind, solar, geothermal, hydropower, and biomass. 
We are committed to reducing the effects of our 
operations and supply chains. In addition to developing world-class facilities, sourcing 100 percent carbon-free electricity for our global operations by 2035 is a key strategy to help us achieve this goal. 
Securing Carbon-Free Electricity 
To replace fossil-based generation, we’ll be procuring a mix
 of wind, solar power, nuclear, geothermal, biomass, 
energy storage, and hydro. One strategy is to secure carbon-free electricity through relationships with local utilities, power producers, and independent project developers. And we’re already making progress. 
All manufacturing facilities in Ohio, New York, and Mexico 
wi
ll be sourced with 100% carbon-free electricity by 
202 2 year end. All manufacturing and large commercial 
facilities in Michigan are expected to be sourced with 100% carbon-free electricity by 2025. Not only does this reduce our emissions, but it also improves the local environment and adds resiliency to the local grid. 
Sustainability-linked performance metrics include 
inc
reasing the percentage of renewable electricity 
consumed in Ford’s global manufacturing plants. 
Rooftop Solar Array  
Also in Michigan, DTE Energy, the state’s largest producer of renewable energy has commissioned a new rooftop solar array at a parking garage at Ford Research & Engineering Center in Dearborn, Michigan. The 2,159- panel array includes an integrated battery storage system and will be used to power newly installed electric vehicle (EV) chargers. The solar array can generate 1.127 million kWh of clean energy, avoiding 880 tons of CO
2, which 
has the environmental benefit equal to the carbon sequestered by nearly 980 acres of U.S. forests in one year. 
The new solar array is just one of several steps both 
co
mpanies are taking to reduce carbon emissions. 
In 2019, Ford became the first corporate customer to enroll in DTE’s MIGreenPower voluntary renewable en
ergy program. Through the program, Ford is purchasing 
525,000 megawatt hours annually of Michigan wind energy from DTE’s Isabella and Fairbanks wind parks. 
Modernizing Plants for Energy Efficiency 
We’re modernizing plants in South Africa and Thailand wi
th an eye towards energy efficiency. We’re also ensuring 
our new plants are energy efficient. Ford has been in talks with utilities to procure carbon-free energy and hopes to harness geothermal energy to provide both heating and cooling for the facilities. 
In Europe, Ford is already using 100 percent carbon-free 
ele
ctricity to power: Dunton and Daventry in the U.K., 
the Craiova plant in Romania, and all facilities in Cologne, Germany including the vehicle assembly and engine plants, as well as the Research Center in Merkenich. We expect that Europe will be among the first global regions to become carbon neutral. 
Jiangling and Changan Ford Hangzhou Plants, China 
Ford Joint Venture Jiangling Automobile production pl
ant is currently planning the installation and use of 
solar panels. The planned 300,000 solar photovoltaic panels are expected to generate 6 0 million  kWh of solar 
power and reduce carbon emissions by more than 50,000 tons annually. 
The Jiangling Plant will join the Changan Ford 
Ha
ngzhou Plant, which completed the installation 
of solar photovoltaic panels in 2019. In 2020, the Hangzhou Branch’s annual solar power supply reached 13 million  kWh, accounting for 25% of the total power 
consumption of the plant and reducing nearly 10,000 tons of carbon emissions. Silverton Plant, South Africa New advanced technologies and systems are being de
veloped at the Ford Silverton Assembly Plant in 
Pretoria, to support expanded production of the all-new Ranger pickup truck, starting in 2022. Silverton is moving towards energy self-sufficiency and carbon neutrality, while increasing annual installed capacity to 200,000 vehicles for domestic sales and export to 100+ global markets. The first phase of Project BlueOval already is underway with the construction of solar carports for 4,200 vehicles at the Silverton Plant. 
Pacheco Plant, Argentina 
Our Pacheco plant in Argentina is making strides on en
vironmental responsibility on a variety of fronts. In 
2021, it achieved more than 40% of renewable electrical energy consumption and recycled 93% of total waste generated as of November 2021. It is reducing kWh usage in compressed air generation from 36% to 25% and completing energy meter installation in all manufacturing facilities. Lastly, it is creating a native forest comprised of 120 local species to capture carbon emissions. 
à Read more about our Sustainable Financing Framework on p.27
91  |  Ford Integrated Sustainability and Financial Report 2022
Contents