The experience was well received, and dealerships saw a 
ris
e in customer satisfaction scores. In 2021, we expanded 
the popular service by making it available to all of our 8.5 million  FordPass Rewards members, adding an extra 
level of convenience for regular vehicle maintenance calls and showing our customers that we value their time. It also aligned with our aspiration to be the industry leader in remote services by the end of 2021, which includes hundreds of mobile service vans, loaner vehicles, and vouchers to ride-sharing services. 
Discover Your Ford 
The need for customer education doesn’t stop after the vehi
cle is delivered. It’s an ever-evolving journey, and as 
life events and vehicle uses change, so does the need for additional learning. Discover Your Ford, launched in 2021, caters to the different learning styles of customers to provide the best possible education experience. 
A user-friendly, direct-to-customer learning experience, 
Dis
cover Your Ford offers customers the flexibility to 
discover more about their new vehicle when and where they want, including live stream sessions focused on specific vehicle features, a digital feature guide, and an on-demand video library full of short helpful tips on setting up and using their vehicle. 
Customers can even schedule a guided virtual tour, so 
the
y can video chat with a Ford product expert for a more 
personalized experience. The learning platform is initially targeted for the Ford F-150, Mustang Mach-E, Bronco Sport, and Bronco. More vehicles will be added as they become available.Expanding Loyalty and Membership Programs Membership of our FordPass and Lincoln Way apps incr
eased to more than 9 million  members in the U.S. 
This community forms the foundation of our advocacy programs. In the U.S., our FordPass Rewards Visa rewards customers for everyday spending. Now we are strengthening our FordPass Rewards program – already one of the most comprehensive auto industry loyalty programs in North America – by adding Blue, Silver, and Bronze tiers to reward and recognize our most loyal customers. 
Each higher tier unlocks exclusive membership benefits, 
giv
ing customers even more ways to redeem points. 
Members in the top two tiers, Silver and Blue, will be eligible for complimentary Pickup and Delivery services. Members also have access to exclusive partnership offers and discounts with Costco and others. Additionally, FordPass app customers have access to information on FordCredit and recalls, vehicle health alerts and access to emergency services, all at no cost. 
We are expanding the program through experiential tiers 
and t
he FordPass Rewards Visa Card, as we build out 
similar loyalty programs in other markets like Canada