As the market leader in herbs and spices, McCormick 
is an active leader at ASTA, seeking to drive industry-
wide excellence in compliance, safety and sustainability. 
Our engagement enables McCormick to collaborate 
with industry peers, governmental agencies on a global 
scale and other parties to influence public policy and 
regulations in the U.S. and around the world. At ASTA, McCormick advocates for continuous improvement in 
agricultural, processing and laboratory practices across 
the globally dispersed and diverse spice and herb 
supply chains. Our leadership engagement also allows 
McCormick to influence the prioritization of investments 
and the creation and dissemination of guidance and 
standards for source country growers and processors to 
drive food safety and regulatory compliance. 
McCormick is also able to influence growing 
investments in sustainability programs as a Steering 
Committee member through ongoing collaboration 
with of the Sustainable Vanilla Initiative (SVI) Trade 
Initiative (“IDH”), Sustainable Spices Initiative (“SSI”), 
the Ecological Society of America (“ESA ”) and the 
Vietnamese Pepper Association. This multi-party 
sustainability initiative is designed to deliver safe and 
compliant supply, improve farmer livelihood and assure 
sustainable supply.American Spice Trade Association
McCormick’s agricultural supply chains are complex 
and varied, and as our sustainable sourcing programs 
increase in scale and reach, it’s important to ensure 
efficient and reliable data collection to monitor 
compliance as well as tracking impact. We have 
incorporated a suite of technical solutions, including 
Sourcemap and Farmforce, into our programs, to 
provide suppliers, farmer groups and other partners 
with the ability to collect data and report progress. In 2021, we integrated innovative functionalities such as 
carbon benefit assessment and baseline calculations 
for the McCormick Women’s Empowerment Framework 
(MWEF). Live dashboards allow us to aggregate and 
compare data across raw materials and regions, and 
provide insights for finetuning our interventions to 
maximize our impact. Moving forward, data integration 
will be instrumental in reporting progress towards our 
2025 goals and beyond. Utilizing Technology to Track Impact
ABOUT  
McCORMICK
AWARDS
OUR PLP  
APPROACH
GOALS
ETHICS  
& COMPLIANCE
GROWN FOR GOOD  
FRAMEWORK
PEOPLE
COMMUNITIES
PLANET
INDICES & DATAABOUT  
THIS REPORTSTAKEHOLDERSCONTENTS
95