OUR COMMITMENT TO PEOPLE
2021
PLP REPORT
Insight and Influence
We continually work to improve our capability to 
anticipate risks, developing regulatory requirements and 
modifying our quality management system accordingly. 
Additionally, we readily adopt the latest developments in 
technology to supplement our internal team of industry-
leading experts in quality, food safety and regulatory 
affairs to keep abreast of the emerging issues before 
they impact our business. We often take leadership 
roles in industry consortia and trade associations, which 
serves to both inform our horizon-scanning activities and 
enable McCormick to apply its expertise to the industry-
wide pursuit of excellence in Food Safety and regulatory 
compliance. For example, we currently hold the 
position of President of both the America Spice Trade 
Association (ASTA) and US Flavor Extract Manufacturers 
Association (FEMA). Active partnerships help us to 
collaborate at an industry level to uphold the safety and 
integrity of our products and ingredients. 
Everyday Great Execution
We deploy the practices to assure quality, food safety 
and regulatory excellence through the McCormick 
One QMS quality management system. In addition 
to the deployment of our policies, standards and 
best practices, this management system provides a 
governance infrastructure that facilitates performance 
oversight and drives continuous improvement in all 
we do. The Vice President, Global Quality Assurance 
has accountability to drive this governance process, 
including quarterly reviews with the CEO and Management Committee and, at minimum, annual 
reviews with the Board of Directors. Quality is a 
critical element of the Enterprise Risk Management 
process. All McCormick facilities worldwide are certified 
to a third-party food safety management standard 
recognized by the Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI). 
Among our ingredient suppliers to the Americas 
and EMEA, 85% are certified to a GFSI food safety 
standard. Further, we have created a culture that 
supports every employee in McCormick’s everyday 
execution through our introduction of training on food 
fraud in 2021 as well as a whistleblower process for 
food fraud to further achieve food safety excellence. 
As an additional commitment focused on the threat of 
food fraud, we have introduced a training program and 
a whistleblower process to enable our employees to 
protect McCormick against this specific risk.  
People
We are committed to keeping McCormick a great place 
to work, where exceptional people continue to develop 
their skills and capabilities and demonstrate their 
passion for the products we supply. This, above all else, 
is the foundational pillar in our commitment to Quality 
and creates a culture that assures our product integrity. 
We are partnering with the Culture Excellence initiative 
to run a program that measures our Food Safety & 
Quality culture across all our operations, enabling 
us to drive global and localized activities, promoting 
continuous improvement and keeping the quality of our 
products our number one priority.Quality , Safety and Compliance by Design
We take a proactive and preventative approach 
to ensure we deliver our quality commitment by 
designing quality into any product ion process at its 
conception. This applies equally to the work of our 
product developers designing our foods, the engineers 
developing our manufacturing footprint across the 
globe and the quality professionals driving our Quality 
Management System. Our Flavor Solutions formulas 
are certified and registered, along with Product 
Specifications and Safety Data Sheets, to ensure our 
products are safe