OUR COMMITMENT TO PEOPLE
2021
PLP REPORT
I joined WIN within days of starting out at McCormick, and I am so happy 
that I did, because it opened a door to a huge network outside of my day-to-
day role. Throughout the events I’ve attended, I have formed relationships 
with other women that I might not have met cross-functionally through my 
role. I became connected to plant managers, data scientists at the Technical 
Innovation Center, as well as others in HQ that may have worked on a 
different floor that I had never seen before. WIN mentoring circles in 2019 and 2020 not only strengthened those connections with others, but also helped 
with my personal and professional development. Since joining the leadership 
team last year, I’ve loved being involved with creating engaging events, 
whether it’s a self-defense class, being part of a speaker series, or even 
partnering with other EAGs. My favorite parts of being involved in an EAG at 
McCormick is expanding my network, and learning more about the Company 
and the community outside of my direct line of work.ALEXANDRA
WOMEN’S INTERNATIONAL NETWORK
Being a part of the AAAN EAG has afforded me the opportunity to engage 
collaboratively with colleagues who I may not have met otherwise. I’ve been 
fortunate to cultivate many relationships with a number of people as a result. 
Being actively involved has been a rewarding experience. I’ve enjoyed playing a 
part in various functions in the organization from serving as a regular standing 
member, to a committee chair, to current co-chair. Serving in these roles 
has coincided with some pivotal events that have occurred in our society. My experience at McCormick has been enhanced by my ability to make a 
difference during these societal moments. I am able to touch and help so 
many with the platform I’m given and for that I am truly grateful. I have been 
given an awesome opportunity to work with a terrific team who is driven and 
passionate about making a difference. This has made and continues to make 
my experience a very proud one!PATRICK
AFRICAN AMERICAN AMBASSADOR NETWORKMeet Our Employee Ambassadors
As I reflect on my time at McCormick and my involvement in our employee 
ambassador groups, I am grateful that I have had the opportunity to become 
connected with so many colleagues outside of my standard line function that 
I can learn and grow from. Not only is the expansive network a great benefit 
of the EAGs, but the ability to develop new skills and provide a platform for 
members to be valued and heard, is extremely rewarding. I am proud to 
be an active member of numerous EAGs within McCormick as it has truly 
helped me develop both professionally and personally. Specifically as a leader for McCormick Young Professionals (“McYP”), I am proud to help foster 
an inclusive environment for our interns through a formal Intern Mentoring 
program. I am also proud to positively give back to our community through 
our partnership with Future Business Leaders of America–Maryland Chapter. 
I look forward to continuing to positively impact members of McYP and 
encourage strong retention and engagement, which in turn provides value to 
McCormick. The EAGs are a true reflection of McCormick’s commitment to 
keep this a great place to work!DANIELLE
McCORMICK YOUNG PROFESSIONALSABOUT  
McCORMICK
AWARDS
OUR PLP  
APPROACH
GOALS
ETHICS  
& COMPLIANCE
GROWN FOR GOOD  
FRAMEWORK
PEOPLE
COMMUNITIES
PLANET
INDICES & DATAABOUT  
THIS REPORTSTAKEHOLDERSCONTENTS
50