Overall, I am pleased with our progress on our 2025 goals and 
commitments. I hope you will take the opportunity to learn more 
about how the Company is performing and making a positive 
impact. The global landscape in which we operate has changed 
dramatically since the publication of our 2019 Purpose-led 
Performance (PLP) Progress Report. The global pandemic and 
the continued negative effects of climate change have caused 
unprecedented disruptions to international supply chains around 
the world. McCormick recognizes the important role we play as 
an industry leader to help solve some of the world’s toughest 
challenges. In this newly released 2021 PLP Report, you will 
see additional commitments to achieve 1 .5°C by 2030 and Net 
Zero by 2050. We have achieved our Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse 
gas emissions goals four years early. Like most companies, we 
have a significant amount of work to do to positively deliver our 
commitments for Scope 3. We are announcing new goals and 
programs in this area that will be validated by science-based 
targets. We’re also proud to announce that we have established 
the position of Chief Sustainability Officer, who is tasked with the 
responsibility of driving our Purpose-led Performance agenda and 
delivering on our sustainability imperatives.In recognition of our work since our last report, McCormick 
was officially awarded the inaugural 2021 Terra Carta Seal from 
His Royal Highness the Prince of Wales. The seal recognizes 
private sector companies who are leading their peers in creating 
genuinely sustainable markets. The Company was also named a 
United Nations Global Compact LEAD Company for our ongoing 
commitment to the UN Global Compact and its Ten Principles for 
responsible business. McCormick continues to be recognized 
as one of the most sustainable companies in the world. The 
Company was ranked the world’s 14th most sustainable 
corporation and 1st in the Food Products sector by the Corporate 
Knights Global 100 Sustainability Index