The Company also uses a supplier scorecard process that 
includes the number of suppliers targeted by region and risk 
level, determined by an assessment and audit score, as a key 
performance indicator to measure the Company’s effectiveness in 
ensuring that forced labor and human trafficking is not taking place 
in the Company’s business or supply chains. This process uses 
formal assessments and audits to verify that high-risk suppliers 
in the supply chain are in compliance with International Labor 
Organization regulations and McCormick’s own requirements 
regarding forced labor and human trafficking. McCormick will remain 
transparent and report on the Company’s evolving efforts to combat 
forced labor and human trafficking in the Company’s business and 
supply chains.McCormick requires suppliers to sign up to the Sedex platform, 
one of the world’s leading ethical trade membership organizations, 
which works with businesses to improve working conditions in their 
global supply chains. As a Sedex member, suppliers complete a 
supplier assessment questionnaire, which scores suppliers based 
on the risk of their supply chains. High-risk suppliers are required 
to undergo Sedex’s social auditing methodology, called a Sedex 
Members Ethical Trade Audit (“SMETA ”), which is conducted by 
an independent third-party auditor. The SMETA process enables 
businesses to assess their sites and suppliers to understand 
working conditions in their supply chain. A social audit is one of 
the best ways to understand the working conditions at a supplier 
site. An auditor physically attends the site – or workplace – of a 
business, enabling the auditor to assess the conditions on the 
ground. Once an audit is complete, buyer and supplier businesses 
can work together to address any issues, based on a Corrective 
Action Plan (CAPR). McCormick requires such suppliers to undergo 
the SMETA a minimum of every three years. Suppliers that are part 
of McCormick’s Grown for Good are required to be both Sedex 
members and SMETA audited, which helps the Company ensure 
that child or forced labor isn’t present.Ethical Supply Chains
ABOUT  
McCORMICK
AWARDS
OUR PLP  
APPROACH
GOALS
ETHICS  
& COMPLIANCE
GROWN FOR GOOD  
FRAMEWORK
PEOPLE
COMMUNITIES
PLANET
INDICES & DATAABOUT  
THIS REPORTSTAKEHOLDERSCONTENTS
81