203-2 Significant indirect economic impactsInvesting in sourcing communities provides a number of economic benefits for McCormick. These investments increase farmer loyalty and build trust 
with our local sourcing partners, which results in less side-selling and improved quality of raw materials. In years in which yield is low due to weather or 
other external factors, our suppliers are more likely to have access to raw materials by having these direct relationships with farmers, ensuring continuity 
of supply for McCormick. These investments also reduce reputational risk for the company. For example, by investing in local schooling, we reduce the  
risk of child labor within our supply chains. 
McCormick has received multiple recognitions for our contributions to sustainability, including ranking 6th on the Global 100 most sustainable 
corporations in the world and the top rated food company on the Barron’s most sustainable companies. These recognitions provide indirect positive 
economic impacts for the company through earned media, which improves our brand value. Through our materiality assessment, we have identified that 
farmer and community resiliency, raw material sourcing and human rights are the most material issues for external stakeholders and therefore these 
investments play a    role in maintaining and attracting investors and customers and developing relationships with NGOs and funding partners such as 
USAID, GIZ and USDA. 
Procurement Practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Indices & Data -> Performance Table
Anti-Corruption205-1Operations assessed for risks related to 
corruptionTotal number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption = 100% 
205-2Communication and training about anti 
-corruption policies and proceduresPeople -> Growth & Development at McCormick Total number and percentage of governance body members that the organization’s anti-corruption 
policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by region. = 100% Total number and percentage of employees that the organization’s 
anti-corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by employee category and region. = 100%
205-3Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions 
takenIndices & Data -> Performance Table
Anti-Competitive Behavior 206-1Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior,  
anti -trust, and monopoly practicesThis information is confidential