CONTINUED COMMITMENT TO IMPROVEMENT (OUR GOALS)
2021
PLP REPORT
United Nations Sustainable Development Goal Alignment (Continued)
Reduced Inequalities
We champion equality throughout our business, advocating 
parity for women and underrepresented groups through our 
Employee Ambassador Groups and our Ignite programs. 
Our goal is to have women in 50% of leadership 
positions globally and ethnically diverse talent (EDT) in 
30% of leadership positions in the U.S. Furthermore, our 
position in the global food industry value chain allows us to 
have an impact on reducing inequality in the communities 
where we operate. We empower our farming communities 
by developing knowledge, skills and talent, and improving 
access to financing. Our funding of vanilla processing 
centers in Madagascar communities, which help farmer 
cooperatives reap additional economic benefits, is just  
one example. 
Sustainable Cities & Communities  
We strive to increase the sustainability of cities and 
communities through various efforts, including reducing 
energy consumption in our facilities. McCormick has 
completed three LEED Certification projects to help us 
use resources more efficiently, waste less and reduce our 
impact on the planet. Our global headquarters in Hunt Valley, 
Maryland, is LEED Gold-certified, our new distribution center 
in Sparrows Point, Maryland, will soon be Net Zero and 
LEED Gold-certified, our manufacturing facility in Thailand 
is LEED Silver-certified, and our Shanghai Plant is LEED 
Silver-certified. Additionally, our new manufacturing site in 
Peterborough, UK, is on track to become McCormick’s first 
Net Zero Carbon facility and we’re constructing a new 
headquarters and warehouse in Australia, which has been 
built to achieve the 5-Star Green Star Rating. We also have 
corporate goals in place for a 42% absolute reduction in 
greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 & Scope 2) from our 
facilities by 2030. We are also targeting a 42% absolute 
reduction in greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3) by 2030. 
Additionally, we are aiming for 80% recycling and recovery 
of solid waste from our facilities