INDICES & DATA
2021
PLP REPORTSUBJECT ITEM REFERENCE METRIC / DISCUSSION ITEM DISCLOSURE
Indirect Economic Impacts203-1Infrastructure investments and services 
supportedMcCormick supports infrastructure projects in the countries from which we source our top five iconic raw materials, based on identification through 
needs and risk assessments. Some examples include the construction of primary schools and a bridge to provide improved access for remote 
villages in Madagascar, the construction of clean drinking water facilities and a water catchment pond in India, and clean drinking water and waste 
disposal infrastructure as well as a community center in Vietnam. We have also funded projects to improve existing facilities, including health centres 
in Indonesia. McCormick works with partners on the ground to ensure that local communities and authorities take ownership of the improved 
infrastructure, ensuring the long-term viability and upkeep of facilities.  
Communities positively benefit from these investments, as they often meet an immediate need previously identified. For example, in Madagascar, the 
construction of schools provides access to education, benefiting not only the children who attend, but also reducing the burden on women who bare the 
majority of the childcare duties when they are not in formalized education. Women therefore have more time for income-generating activities including 
vanilla farming and processing. The construction of a bridge also provided villagers with improved access to local markets. In India, community members 
were becoming ill from drinking water sourced locally, and therefore often trucked in clean water from nearby towns. The construction of reverse 
osmosis water filtering facilities provided clean water, locally, at a much lower cost, while preventing illness. This was particularly important during the 
COVID-19 pandemic when travel was restricted and trucks carrying water may have been prevented from traveling to these villages