2021
PLP REPORTOUR COMMITMENT TO COMMUNITIES
As a global leader in flavor, McCormick recognizes the 
important role we play in protecting those who work within 
our supply chain. Our approach is disciplined, anchored by 
a new Global Human Rights Policy, upkept through rigorous 
supplier certification and enforced through strict oversight. This approach is both internal, ensuring safe and fair working 
conditions for our employees and partners, extending to our 
memberships in the United Nations Global Compact and the 
Consumer Goods Forum (“CGF”).Human Rights
McCormick is committed to uncompromising integrity in 
all that we do. As such, we have significantly strengthened 
our commitments to Human Rights in recent years, leading 
efforts that culminated in the adoption of a new Global 
Human Rights Policy. McCormick is a member of the UN 
Global Compact and, in September 2021, was named a 
Global Compact LEAD company by the United Nations for 
its ongoing commitment to the UN Global Compact and its 
Ten Principles for responsible business. As such, we are 
committed to implementing universal sustainability principles 
that meet fundamental responsibilities in the areas of human 
rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. McCormick’s 
new Global Human Rights Policy aligns with these 
commitments as well as basic working conditions and human 
rights concepts advanced by international organizations 
such as the International Labor Organization and the United 
Nations Global Compact on Human Rights. The policy 
represents McCormick’s own minimum standards for working 
conditions and human rights that applies to our employees, 
suppliers and business partners. The policy was developed 
through a collaborative process that included our Global Head 
of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion; Human Resources; Senior 
Leadership Council; Legal; Chief Sustainability Officer; Purpose-
led Performance Leadership Team, and was promoted through 
a variety of internal communications.We believe that our values-driven culture is a formidable 
competitive advantage–one we must foster and protect. 
We embrace and value the diverse backgrounds of all our 
employees and seek to create an atmosphere in which 
ideas can be expressed freely in an environment of mutual 
respect, trust and honesty. As such, the policy sets forth clear 
guidelines around nondiscrimination, harassment, freedom 
of association, work environment, compensation, employee 
privacy, forced labor, child labor, safety, health and protecting 
the environment