MONSTER BEVERAGE CORPORATION /  2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT50our supply chain. This STRT is provided in multi-
ple languages, and suppliers must certify to the 
accuracy of their responses and provide supporting 
evidence. These verification and certification ef-
forts are not limited to our direct (Tier 1) suppliers. 
Where possible, we review the suppliers of our 
suppliers (Tier 2), going further down the supply 
chain. The STRT facilitates this sub-tier approach 
by requiring our direct suppliers to scrutinize their 
own suppliers for evidence supporting proper 
processes for managing human trafficking and 
slavery risks. Suppliers are asked to certify wheth-
er they require their own suppliers to accept and comply with the direct suppliers’ policies regarding 
forced labor and human trafficking, and whether 
that downstream supplier conducts its own verifica-
tion activities to identify, assess, and manage risks 
specific to slavery and human trafficking in its own 
operations and supply chain. The results from these 
risk assessments are used to identify suppliers re-
quiring further due diligence (SASB FB-NB-430a.1). 
Through this data-driven risk assessment process, 
certain suppliers were identified as being at a high-
er risk for modern slavery and human trafficking, 
including the following in our supply chain: sugar, 
coffee and tea. We placed a particular emphasis on 
our suppliers in these industries. In 2021, around 
55 percent of the suppliers that we contacted 
engaged in the risk assessment process. Our risk 
assessments showed certain gaps in certain suppli-
ers’ policies, processes and practices for managing 
human trafficking and slavery. We engaged these 
suppliers in a corrective action process and over 60 
percent of the affected suppliers have completed 
their corrective actions at the time of writing. We 
continue to engage with the outstanding suppliers 
to implement any specific corrective actions. We 
are also engaging with those suppliers who have 
yet to complete the initial assessment (SASB FB-
NB-430a.1).Information gained from the corrective action pro-
gram has been integrated into Monster’s due dil-
igence process and will be used to try to improve 
our Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking program. 
TRAINING
Providing training enables us to educate key team 
members and our internal auditors to recognize 
and combat forced labor and human trafficking. We 
have implemented a multifaceted training program 
on slavery and human trafficking, designed by a 
specialized third-party provider, which includes:
 ›Employee Training – Team members whose work 
relates to supply chain management (including 
those in Procurement and the Legal Department) 
must attend mandatory training on slavery and 
human trafficking risks and implementation of 
Monster’s policies. The training helps to equip 
these team members with an understanding of 
slavery and human trafficking issues, how their 
position can relate to these issues and steps to 
take if they have any concerns. 
 ›Internal Auditor Training – Auditors are also 
given specialized training designed to help them 
recognize the risks and signs of slavery and hu-
man trafficking in their audits. 