MONSTER BEVERAGE CORPORATION /  2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT39SOCIAL
WORKPLACE HEALTH 
AND SAFETY
Monster prides itself on its healthy work environ-
ment. We aim to comply with applicable health and 
safety requirements to minimize risk of accidents, 
injury or any workplace health hazards. All full-time, 
part-time and temporary Monster team members 
are covered under occupational injury and illness 
programs or workers’ compensation insurance. 
We aim to foster a workplace that is free from vi-
olence, harassment, intimidation and other unsafe 
or disruptive conditions due to internal or exter -
nal threats. We are committed to providing fair 
and equitable remediation should circumstances 
require. 
Our subsidiary, AFF , coordinates with the Occu-
pational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) 
on a regular basis to ensure a safe and healthful 
workplace. AFF also has several training programs 
in place that promote a safe environment, cover -
ing topics such as hearing conservation, confined 
space entry and proper operation of heavy machin-
ery.COVID-19 Safety
From the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic in 
March 2020, our top priority has been the health, 
safety and well-being of our team members. In 
2021, we continued to implement global trav-
el restrictions and work-from-home policies for 
team members who were able to work remotely. 
Where possible, team members were provided 
with equipment to facilitate home-based work. For 
team members who were unable to work remotely, 
we implemented safety precautions which were 
developed and adopted in line with guidance from 
public health authorities and professional consul-
tants in the relevant countries. For example, where 
possible, we provided on-site COVID-19 testing 
for team members at select offices and facilities. 
On June 1, 2021, we instituted a phased return to 
in-person work for office-based team members at 
our corporate headquarters. During the first phase, 
the following initiatives went into effect: 
 ›Team members who were fully vaccinated in the 
U.S. and U.K. had the option to return to the 
office