n   Support strategic public policy — We 
advocate for policies that support 
long-term solutions to alleviate hunger 
and reduce food waste. Learn more 
about our public policy engagement 
to ensure people have access to 
nutritious and sufficient food.Alleviating hunger 
Alleviate child hunger
n   Strengthen the reach  
and impact of school  
meal programs in  
our key global 
markets worldwide
n   Increase food access 
among lower income 
populations by 
promoting participation 
in national food and 
nutrition assistance 
programs among those 
who are eligibleAddress racial 
disparities in food 
insecurity
Promote vibrant community 
food systems with 
equitable food access:
n   Partner with civil 
rights and anti-hunger 
organizations
n   Support culturally specific, 
locally driven solutions 
n   Advocate for resources 
and policies to drive 
long-term systems-level 
solutions to end hungerGrow capacity for 
surplus food recovery 
n   Donate General Mills 
surplus food 
n   Support and strengthen 
food banks’ capacity to 
recover and equitably 
distribute food
n   Invest in innovative food 
recovery systems to make 
it easy for food makers, 
grocers, restaurants, 
distributors, schools and 
trucking companies to 
donate their surplus food 
n   Support farm-level 
food rescue General Mills and our partners are improving equitable food access for people in need.Alleviating hunger globally
Our actions: We work with partners 
around the world — including food 
banks, school breakfast club programs 
and other anti-hunger organizations —  
to expand food security and build 
long-term resilience for the future. We 
support community outreach programs 
that help families at risk of hunger 
enroll in food and nutrition assistance 
programs, such the U.S. Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) 
(see how our employees supported this 
effort), and that strengthen the reach 
and impact of school meal programs 
to reduce childhood hunger globally. 
We know that households with children 
are more likely to be food insecure.* 
Because schools are powerful levers for 
increasing food and nutrition security among children, we work to expand 
access to school meal programs around 
the world. In the U.S. we are working 
to help close the “school breakfast 
gap”** — the number of children 
in low-income households who are 
eligible for, but not participating in, 
free school breakfast programs — so 
that all children have daily access 
to a nourishing school breakfast. In 2021, we continued our produce-
to-donate program started in May 
2020 to help Australians in need. In 
partnership with our suppliers, we 
continue to produce 10,000 meals per 
month for Foodbank Australia. This 
collaborative program had enabled 
153,000 meals as of November 2021.Increasing food access
*In 2020 (during the first year of COVID-19), nearly 12 million children were living in food insecure households (1 in 6/11.7 million) and 1 in 8 individuals was at risk of hunger (11.8%/38.3 million). Sources: Feeding America and U.S. Department of 
Agriculture Economic Research Report
** Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, the breakfast gap included 3 million children.What is  
food security?
Food security , as defined by the 
United Nations’ Committee on World 
Food Security, means that all people, 
at all times, have physical, social 
and economic access to sufficient, 
safe and nutritious food that meets 
their food preferences and dietary 
needs for an active and healthy life