Our approach: Just as we care about the 
communities where our ingredients are 
grown, we also care about the places our 
employees call home. Around the world, we support our hometown communities 
through employee volunteerism 
and local community giving. Our 
employees are General Mills greatest asset as they bring our company’s 
purpose to life every day. Supporting 
local causes they are passionate 
about invigorates our employees while strengthening our hometown 
communities around the globe.Strengthening hometown communities 
We are proud of our company’s longstanding work and deep commitment to using our philanthropy as an added lever to advance racial equity. We work in targeted ways to use 
our resources and influence to bring an end to racial disparities in social outcomes, including student educational achievement and food insecurity . Listed below are examples of 
our efforts and impact.Advancing racial equity
in charitable giving by General Mills and its 
Foundation over the last five years (fiscal 2017-
2021) to nonprofits in the Twin Cities (greater 
Minneapolis and St. Paul metro area), including 
$18 million toward promoting equitable food 
access and equity in K-12 education. $6.7 million 31 years 
$25 millionIn 1991, General Mills developed and hosted our first Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. 
Holiday Breakfast. Thirty years later, the event is attended by thousands of 
people each year to contemplate and celebrate the legacy of Dr. King. Since 
that time, General Mills and its Foundation have provided more than $6 million  
in support to the United Negro College Fund (UNCF) to help Black students 
get to and through college.Amount of charitable support that  
General Mills and its Foundation have  
provided to UNCF.hosting Dr. Martin Luther  
King Jr. Holiday Breakfast
General Mills was 
recognized in the 
Points of Light 2021 
Civic 50 report for 
helping to advance  
work on social justice 
through the MBCRE. As a cofounder of the Minnesota Business Coalition 
for Racial Equity (MBCRE), we are helping the 
business sector sharpen and accelerate actions 
to improve conditions and advance equitable 
outcomes with and for Black Minnesotans. The 
coalition’s approach seeks systemic changes via public policy, 
philanthropy, allyship and workplace environments. 
The General Mills philanthropy team continues to work to ensure our charitable giving helps support organizations with missions and 
practices that advance racial equity and whose organizational makeup — including leaders (e.g., Executive Director, Board of Directors) and 
staff — is racially diverse and representative of the diverse communities they serve. In our 2021 review of our philanthropic portfolio in the 
Twin Cities, we integrated new practices to explicitly measure and review dimensions of organizational diversity, equity and inclusion as part 
of our grantmaking application to ensure equitable distribution and investment levels across grantmaking portfolios. Our approach includes supporting community-driven 
solutions guided by minority-led organizations, including: diverse and minority-
led nonprofitsSUPPORTING
GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY   63
Food       Planet       People       Community