In addition, in October 2021 General Mills 
announced its inaugural sustainability-linked 
bond aligned to climate change, making us the first U.S. investment grade CPG company 
to execute this type of bond. The 10-year, 
$500 million sustainability-linked bond is tied 
to measurable improvements on our journey 
to reduce our Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas 
emissions. Both of these innovative financing 
structures demonstrate our commitment 
to combating climate change and illustrate 
how we continue to embed sustainability 
into the fabric of how we operate.“Climate change and its effects are having an 
impact on our planet, people’s lives and on 
General Mills’ ability to live out our purpose 
of making food the world loves. General 
Mills is focused on reducing emissions 
across our value chain, and we are making 
strategic financial investments connected 
to our sustainability goals to further 
advance and support this important work.”
— Kofi Bruce, Chief Financial OfficerGeneral Mills links financing with climate change commitmentsBeing a force for good plays an 
important role in driving long-term 
shareholder value. We are integrating 
our force for good commitments across 
the enterprise, from brand strategy 
development to long range financial 
planning and capital management. 
For this reason, I serve on our Global 
Impact Governance Committee and 
am actively working to integrate ESG 
issues across our strategic planning 
and global finance functions.In May 2021, General Mills was the 
first U.S. consumer packaged goods 
company to enter into a sustainability-
linked revolving credit facility, and in 
October we announced our inaugural 
sustainability-linked bond aligned 
to our climate change targets (learn 
more below). We also hosted our 
first-ever ESG investor event in May, 
highlighting how our work in this 
space is a key component of the 
company’s Accelerate strategy.Pragmatic long-range planning also 
requires an understanding of the risks 
that climate change presents to our 
future business results. To that end 
General Mills signed on as a supporter 
of the Task Force for Climate-Related 
Financial Disclosure (TCFD) in 2019. 
And in 2020, we commissioned 
Trucost/S&P Global to assess our risks 
related to climate change, including 
physical risks as well as risks associated 
with the transition to a low carbon economy, using a robust data-
driven approach. You can find more 
information about our approach below