Governance: General Mills marketing 
policies are reviewed and updated 
regularly by our company’s Responsible 
Marketing Council and reviewed 
with the company’s Chief Executive 
Officer and other senior leaders of 
our U.S. and international operating 
units. The Responsible Marketing 
Council is responsible for drafting and 
issuing marketing policies, ensuring 
full compliance with the policies 
through training and initiatives, and 
holding advisory reviews of all new 
product development and brand 
marketing plans for products that 
will be marketed to children.   
Global commitment: As charter 
members of IFBA, we joined other 
leading food and nonalcoholic beverage 
companies in a public letter to the 
Director General of the UN’s World 
Health Organization in September 2014 
communicating a set of enhanced global 
commitments that included responsible 
marketing and advertising initiatives. 
The enhanced commitments included 
an expansion of IFBA’s global marketing 
policy to cover all forms of child-directed 
advertising, specifying that members 
would only advertise products that meet 
better-for-you criteria or refrain from all 
product marketing to children under 12 
years old. In 2021, we joined with other 
IFBA members to announce further 
enhancements to the IFBA program, 
which will now address marketing to 
children under age 13 (instead of age 
12) and require adherence to globally 
applicable nutrition criteria. These new 
IFBA criteria now serve as a global gap-
filler, governing child marketing around the world by providing robust nutrition 
criteria even in markets where local or 
self-regulatory standards do not exist. 
At General Mills, we commit to adhere 
not only to the new IFBA criteria in these 
global markets, but we also renew our 
longstanding commitment to follow 
the U.S. Children’s Food and Beverage 
Advertising Initiative (CFBAI) criteria 
in these markets. In other words, we 
have long covered the whole world with 
our commitment, historically via CFBAI 
standards and now with both CFBAI and 
IFBA. We have also now expanded our 
commitment by announcing that we will 
adhere globally to the requirements of 
the International Chamber of Commerce 
Framework for Responsible Food and 
Beverage Marketing Communications. 
Aside from these global commitments, 
at local levels we fully comply with the 
applicable local programs, including the 
EU Pledge in Europe, CAI in Canada 
and CFBAI in the U.S.* Our compliance 
track record with these programs 
is extraordinarily strong. CFBAI, in 
particular, publishes a report annually 
that addresses the compliance of all of 
its participants. We are not aware of any 
instance of noncompliance by General 
Mills in the past several years, and 
CFBAI has confirmed this in its reports. 
In the unlikely event of any instance 
of noncompliance, a core function of 
our Responsible Marketing Council 
would be to address such issues and 
determine appropriate corrective action. 
Beyond our commitments under the 
programs noted above, we have made 
additional responsible marketing 
commitments that exceed industry norms. For example, we have adopted 
industry-leading standards regarding 
the responsible use of social media 
platforms. We do not, in the context 
of any child-directed communication, 
encourage children to visit any social 
media service for which they are too 
young (according to the terms of 
those services), nor do we use our own 
presence on these social media platforms 
to direct any communications to children