We continue to build on the positive 
actions we’ve taken for decades, and 
we recognize we still have a lot of 
work to do. We have committed to 
lead differently, vocally and tirelessly. 
The issues of social injustice are broad 
and complex, and we are focusing 
our efforts where our expertise can 
make the greatest impact: equitable 
food access, equity in education 
and equity in representation. 
Our goal is to foster a culture of 
inclusion and belonging that allows 
all our employees to thrive. Ensuring 
diversity of perspectives is core to 
our business strategy. We actively 
cultivate a culture that acknowledges, 
respects and values all dimensions 
of diversity — including gender, 
race, sexual orientation, ability, 
backgrounds and beliefs. We are 
committed to advancing racial equity 
within and outside our workplace.Our strategy: Using our global inclusion 
framework, we will advance engagement  
 around the world, leveraging data to assess 
progress and hold ourselves accountable  
 as we continue to foster a culture of 
inclusion and belonging at General Mills.Global inclusion
Our commitment to racial equity
Our role: We will direct our 
philanthropy to work locally and 
nationally in the U.S. with food 
banks and antihunger organizations 
to address food insecurity that 
disproportionately impacts 
communities of color. 
See our actions in the Community  
section of this report.Our role: Box Tops for EducationTM  
will build on its legacy of giving nearly 
US$1 billion to schools, with a renewed 
focus on creating greater equity in 
education for kids of color in the U.S.  
so they can reach their full potential. 
Learn about our efforts to improve equity 
in education in the Community section  
of this report.Our role: We will address representation  
and access opportunities at General Mills  
in the U.S. by: 
n   Doubling the representation of our  
Black managers*
n   Increasing our minority representation  
to 25%*
n   Doubling our spending with minority-  
owned suppliers**
*See workforce diversity data on p. 51