Although General Mills is primarily a 
plant-forward food company, with 
large businesses such as Cheerios and 
Nature Valley, we use some animal-
derived products and have long worked 
to support the humane treatment of 
animals in agriculture. This helps to 
ensure a resilient supply chain and aligns 
with our ambition to be a force for good. 
At General Mills we do not raise or 
handle livestock, but we are committed 
to protecting animals and work closely 
with our suppliers to do so. We regularly 
engage with stakeholders focused on 
animal health and welfare and leverage 
industry initiatives that advance 
livestock production. Our Animal 
Welfare Policy outlines our approach 
throughout the global supply chain 
for our food products, including:
Cows:  General Mills encourages all 
suppliers in our dairy supply chain 
to support industry-wide efforts that 
promote the humane treatment of cattle. 
All of the fluid milk we source in the U.S. for 
Yoplait comes from co-ops whose member 
farms operate in accordance with the 
standards of the National Milk Producers 
Federation animal care program (Farmers 
Assuring Responsible Management). The 
program comprehensively addresses 
dairy cow care, including standards for 
proper pain relief and disbudding, and 
prohibits the routine use of tail docking. 
The FARM standards are revised on a 
three-year cycle starting with a review 
by a technical committee composed of 
veterinarians and animal care experts.Eggs: Eggs are an important ingredient 
in ice cream, baked goods and doughs, 
and we strive to ensure the hens 
laying them are treated humanely. Our 
commitment is to purchase 100% cage-
free or free-range eggs for our operations 
globally by 2025. In calendar year 
2021, we contracted 61% of global egg 
purchases to be cage-free or free-range. 
COVID-19 has impacted our business mix 
and indirectly our egg volumes. In spite 
of this and other headwinds including 
inflation and market fluctuations caused 
by the implementation of Proposition 12  
in California, our 
commitment is 
unchanged, and we 
detail our expected 
glide path below