To our stakeholders
Jeffrey L. Harmening
Chairman, Chief 
Executive Officer
General MillsINTRODUCTION
For more than 150 years, General Mills 
has been making food the world loves. 
For us that has always meant ensuring 
our food is a reflection of our ability 
to do good for our people, planet and 
communities. That central mission is at 
the heart of General Mills — and was 
never more important than it was in 2021.  
Putting people first
In the face of the COVID-19 pandemic, our 
employees met the moment with resolve. 
They understood that under normal 
circumstances we dedicate ourselves to 
make food the world loves — but in the 
pandemic, we are also making food the 
world needs. We appreciate that millions 
of families are nourished by our food. So 
when disruptions in the global supply 
chain came, we committed ourselves to 
innovative and creative new approaches 
to ensure we could successfully deliver to 
meet our consumers’ needs — and we did.  
Our focus on putting people first extends 
beyond our consumers to across our 
entire value chain… the farmers who 
grow our ingredients, our employees, 
who are the heartbeat of General Mills 
and, of course, the communities we 
are proud to be a part of and serve. 
We took additional steps in 2021 to 
provide our employees with a safe 
workplace, to support their mental 
health and well-being, and to foster a 
culture of inclusion and belonging, so 
that employees could bring their unique 
selves to work every day and thrive.  Addressing inequality
We also continued our commitment to 
use our scale to drive sustainable and 
meaningful change on issues of racial 
and social injustice. We come to the 
table humble, understanding these are 
broad and complex issues. But we also 
come with resolve knowing that we 
have to be part of a larger collective 
effort if we hope to make significant 
progress in this space. We have made 
progress to target racial disparities in 
food security and its disproportionate 
impacts on communities of color, 
support nonprofit organizations that 
are working to bring about equity in 
education, and address representation 
and access opportunities within our 
own workforce. For example, through 
our Box Tops for Education program 
we are equipping teachers to identify 
and address racial bias, supporting 
programs to increase the number of 
teachers of color, and distributing funds 
to impact schools in need across our 
headquarters community in Minnesota. 
Regenerating our planet 
As extreme weather events occur 
with greater intensity and frequency 
around the world — with devastating 
effects on people and the natural 
resources necessary to produce 
food — we recognize that adopting 
more sustainable practices is not 
enough. We instead need to regenerate 
the world’s resources to strengthen 
ecosystems and community resilience. General Mills is leading the industry 
in advancing regenerative agriculture 
by partnering with farmers, advancing 
science, and measuring outcomes. We 
see regenerative agriculture driving 
significant impact on planetary 
health, people and in reaching our 
2030 and 2050 climate targets.  
In our 52nd year of reporting social 
and environmental performance to 
stakeholders, we remain committed 
to disclosing our progress, as well 
as our challenges. We continue to 
support key global efforts to advance 
the sustainability agenda, including 
the United Nations Global Compact, 
which we have endorsed since 2008. 
While plenty of work remains to be 
done, we are optimistic. I am incredibly 
proud of the General Mills team that 
shows up every day with passion, care 
and ingenuity.  We are inspired by the 
past and energized by the future we 
are shaping together. We understand 
we have a role to play — and we are 
more determined than ever to ensure 
the G in General Mills stands for Good. 
Sincerely,
Jeff
GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY   01