Many Americans fall short on calcium 
and vitamin D in their diet. To help 
address this gap, most flavors of Original 
Style Yoplait were reformulated to 
provide an excellent source of calcium 
and a good source of vitamin D.The nutrition profile of Light Style Yoplait 
also underwent a change. Yoplait Light  
yogurts now provide 80 calories, 7 grams 
total sugar and 1 gram of added sugar 
(down from 90 calories, 10 grams total 
sugar and 4 grams of added sugar).In Mexico, we reduced added sugar 
by 78% in our Nature Valley Fruteria 
snack bar and added 13 grams 
of fiber per 100 grams. With this 
formulation improvement, whole grain 
oats are now the first ingredient.Product reformulation highlights
Sustainable diets
The World Health Organization has 
identified Sustainable Healthy Diets 
as dietary patterns that promote an 
individual’s health and well-being; have 
low environmental pressure and impact; 
are accessible, affordable, safe and 
equitable; and are culturally acceptable. 
General Mills supports this perspective, 
and we are focused on providing 
nutrient-dense foods that contribute 
healthful ingredients, including whole 
grains and low-fat dairy, to the diet. 
We also invest in regenerative 
agriculture to reduce environmental 
impact, restore soil health, and support 
farming communities. Our packaging 
team continually explores renewable 
materials and new opportunities to 
reduce packaging while keeping foods 
fresh. Learn more about how General 
Mills supports regenerative agriculture 
and works to reduce the environmental 
impacts of food packaging in the 
Planet section of this report. Personalized nutrition 
As consumers’ desire for personalized 
nutrition expands, General Mills is 
working to provide innovative offerings. 
Our diverse portfolio includes many 
products designed to meet the evolving 
preferences of consumers who choose 
their foods with specific nutrition and 
lifestyle goals in mind. Examples include:
n   Carb-conscious – Our Ratio brand 
extended its keto-friendly product 
offerings to include dairy snacks and 
soft bakes with net carbs in mind. Good Measure offers snack bars —  
convenient snack solutions that 
provide fiber and nuts and have  
5 grams or less of net carbs —  
as an occasional snack for 
consumers interested in limiting 
their carbohydrate consumption. 
Wonderworks is the newest cereal 
brand from General Mills, with  
3 grams of net carbs and  
17 grams of protein per serving. 
n   Weight management – Fiber One 
bars and brownies are smart choices 
for consumers looking for tasty ways to enjoy their favorite snacks 
while managing their weight. Our 
Yoplait Light brand has been a 
calorie-controlled yogurt for years 
and was recently reformulated to 
have less sugar and fewer calories