We are also collaborating with leading 
conservation organizations within 
our key regions that — combined 
with the pilots — help to drive further 
progress in advancing regenerative 
agriculture systems. These include:
n   Soil health programs with the Wilkin 
County, Walsh County, and Kittson 
County Soil & Water Conservation 
Districts in the Northern Plains
n   Oklahoma Conservation Commission 
farmer-to-farmer mentorship 
program in the Southern PlainsWe are partnering with organic and conventional farmers, suppliers and trusted 
farm advisors in key growing regions to drive the adoption of regenerative farming 
principles. Starting with pilot programs in:
Learnings from our pilot programs
We’ve received positive feedback 
from both farmers and Understanding 
Ag (UA) consultants since launching 
our Southern Plains regenerative 
agriculture pilot in spring of 2020. This 
pilot, along with the Northern Plains 
pilot, are designed to study how 
effective deep soil health training, 
1:1 technical assistance, and peer-
to-peer learning are in advancing 
regenerative agricultural systems 
in the region. After two years of 
participation, Understanding Ag 
consultants surveyed farmers to 
understand how the program has 
aided them in their journey. The 
results to the right demonstrate the value of technical and social support 
programming in the understanding 
of soil health, implementation of 
techniques and related impacts, and 
the desire to continue advancing in 
the future. The feedback suggests 
our pilot investments have been 
effective in driving change and we’re 
now exploring how layering financial 
assistance mechanisms to further 
accelerate momentum. 2022 will be 
the final year for our Northern and 
Southern Plains pilots so we look 
forward to sharing additional insights 
and a broader suite of environmental 
and economic impacts in future reports.  Survey Question Yes No
Do you feel you have a better understanding of soil 
health now compared to the start of the project?20 1
Would you be using as much cover cropping on your farm 
if it were not for the support of your UA Consultant? 16 5
Would you be using as many diverse cover crop mixes if it wasn't 
for the advisement and support of your UA Consultant?16 5
Do you feel that your soil health has advanced since the start  
of the project?19 2
Have you experienced greater profits since the beginning of 
the project due to the advisement of your UA Consultant?15 6
Do you intend to continue trying new things after the 
project is over to advance your soil health? 21 02021 Southern Plains Regenerative Agriculture Pilot Survey 
GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY   29
Food       Planet       People       Community70,000  
ACRES OF  
ROW CROPS
40,000 ACRES 
OF ROW CROPS5,000 ACRES  
OF DAIRY AND 
ROW CROPS
SUPPORTED BY:SUPPORTED BY:SUPPORTED BY:
NORTHERN PLAINS SOUTHERN PLAINS GREAT LAKES