2021 SASB Index 
TOPIC ACCOUNTING METRIC CATEGORY UNIT OF 
MEASURECODE 2021 HERSHEY RESPONSE
Health & 
NutritionRevenue from products labeled and/
or marketed to promote health and 
nutrition attributesQuantitative Reporting 
currencyFB-PF-260a.1 Hershey 2021 ESG Report:
• Our Company: Food Safety and Nutrition, page 19
Discussion of the process to identify 
and manage products and ingredients 
related to nutritional and health 
concerns among consumersDiscussion  
and Analysisn/a FB-PF-260a.2 Hershey 2021 ESG Report:
• Our Company: Nutrition, Innovation, Choice and Transparency, page 15
We maintain a Food Claims Review Council in the U.S. providing guidance on a wide 
variety of topics, including nutrition, ingredients, sustainability, responsible sourcing 
and product certifications. 
Research from the 2021 International Food Information Council’s Food and Health 
Survey indicates that 72% of consumers are looking to limit or avoid sugar. In 2021, 
Hershey re-launched our Zero Sugar Candy portfolio with updated packaging and 
branding. Throughout development of the updated packaging, the project team met 
frequently with the Food Claims Review Council to ensure that all the claims and 
required labeling elements comply with applicable law and regulations. This involved 
a critical review of all recipes, ingredients and supplier information. Members of 
the cross-functional project team are in attendance for these review meetings 
and obtain feedback from legal, regulatory and nutrition professionals as part of 
this process. 
We are also committed to offering consumers a wide range of choices to meet their 
preferences and lifestyle needs. To that end, Hershey recently launched Organic 
HERSHEY’S Milk Chocolate Bar, Organic HERSHEY’S SPECIAL DARK Mildly 
Sweet Chocolate Bar and Organic REESE’S Peanut Butter Cups. As part of the 
development of these products, the Food Claims Review Council worked closely 
with the product development teams to ensure that the products meet or exceed 
the standards of the relevant third-party certifying bodies (e.g., U.S. Department of 
Agriculture (USDA) Organic and Non-GMO Project Verified). 3 The Hershey Company  |  2021 SASB Index