 PART I Item 1. BUSINESS Company Overview Archer-Daniels-Midland Company (the Company or ADM) unlocks the power of nature to provide access to nutrition worldwide. The Company is a global leader in human and animal nutrition and the world’s premier agricultural origination and processing company. ADM’s breadth, depth, insights, facilities and logistical expertise give the Company unparalleled capabilities to meet needs for food, beverages, health and wellness, and more. From the seed of the idea to the outcome of the solution, ADM enriches the quality of life the world over. The Company transforms natural products into staple foods, sustainable, renewable industrial products, and an expansive pantry of food and beverage ingredients and solutions for foods and beverages, supplements, nutrition for pets and livestock and more. And with an array of unparalleled capabilities across every part of the global food chain, ADM gives its customers an edge in solving global challenges of today and tomorrow. At ADM, sustainable practices and a focus on environmental responsibility are not separate from its primary business: they are integral to the work the Company does every day to serve customers and create value for shareholders. The Company is one of the world’s leading producers of ingredients for human and animal nutrition, and other products made from nature. ADM owns and operates an extensive global grain elevator and transportation network to procure, store, clean, and transport agricultural raw materials, such as oilseeds, corn, wheat, milo, oats, and barley, as well as products derived from those inputs. ADM’s production facilities around the world turn natural products into a wide array of food, beverage, health and wellness, feed, and other ingredients. In addition, ADM has significant investments and joint ventures that aim to expand or enhance the market for its products or offer other benefits including, but not limited to, geographic or product-line expansion. ADM works with growers, supporting them with personalized services and innovative technologies; partnering with them to develop and enhance sustainable practices; and transforming their bounty into products for consumers around the globe. From plant-based proteins to probiotics, the Company is growing nutrition trends, working closely with customers to create custom, delicious solutions from nature to meet consumer preferences. ADM does the same with animal nutrition products. Today, more people want to feed their pets the same kind of clean, healthy products they eat themselves and consumers expect livestock and poultry to be fed and raised humanely and sustainably. The Company’s innovation and expertise are helping people live healthier lives. Around the world, ADM’s food scientists, flavorists, chefs and more offer innovative solutions for consumers seeking foods, beverages and supplements to support health and wellness. The Company’s global footprint combines with local insights to give ADM the capabilities few other companies have – ensuring that it gets the very best ingredients from around the globe to its customers, wherever they may be. Segment Descriptions The Company’s operations are organized, managed, and classified into three reportable business segments: Ag Services and Oilseeds, Carbohydrate Solutions, and Nutrition. Each of these segments is organized based upon the nature of products and services offered. The Company’s remaining operations are not reportable business segments, as defined by the applicable accounting standard, and are classified as Other Business. Financial information with respect to the Company’s reportable business segments is set forth in Note 17 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” included in Item 8 herein, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” (Item 8). 4 Item 1. BUSINESS (Continued) Ag Services and Oilseeds The Ag Services and Oilseeds segment includes global activities related to the origination, merchandising, transportation, and storage of agricultural raw materials, and the crushing and further processing of oilseeds such as soybeans and soft seeds (cottonseed, sunflower seed, canola, rapeseed, and flaxseed) into vegetable oils and protein meals. Oilseeds products produced and marketed by the segment include ingredients for food, feed, energy, and industrial customers. Crude vegetable oils produced by the segment’s crushing activities are sold “as is” to manufacturers of renewable green diesel and other customers or are further processed by refining, blending, bleaching, and deodorizing into salad oils. Salad oils are sold “as is” or are further processed by hydrogenating and/or interesterifying into margarine, shortening, and other food products. Partially refined oils are used to produce biodiesel and glycols or are sold to other manufacturers for use in chemicals, paints, and other industrial products. Oilseed protein meals are principally sold to third parties to be used as ingredients in commercial livestock and poultry feeds. The Ag Services and Oilseeds segment is also a major supplier of peanuts and peanut-derived ingredients to both the U.S. and export markets. In North America, cotton cellulose pulp is manufactured and sold to the chemical, paper, and other industrial markets. The Ag Services and Oilseeds segment’s grain sourcing, handling, and transportation network (including barge, ocean-going vessel, truck, rail, and container freight services) provides reliable and efficient services to the Company’s customers and agricultural processing operations. The Ag Services and Oilseeds segment also includes agricultural commodity and feed product import, export, and global distribution, and structured trade finance activities. The Company has a 32.2% interest in Pacificor (formerly Kalama Export Company LLC). Pacificor owns and operates a grain export elevator in Kalama, Washington and a grain export elevator in Portland, Oregon. In August 2020, the Company sold a portion of its shares in Wilmar International Limited (Wilmar), a Singapore publicly listed company, as part of a capital allocation action, decreasing its ownership interest from 24.8% to 22.2%. Wilmar is a leading global agribusiness group headquartered in Asia engaged in the businesses of packaged oils and packaged foods, oil palm cultivation, oilseeds crushing, edible oils refining, sugar milling and refining, specialty fats, oleo chemicals, biodiesel and fertilizers manufacturing, and grains processing. The Company has a 50.0% interest in Stratas Foods LLC, a joint venture between ADM and ACH Jupiter, LLC, a subsidiary of Associated British Foods, that procures, packages, and sells edible oils in North America. The Company has a 50.0% interest in Edible Oils Limited, a joint venture between ADM and Princes Limited to procure, package, and sell edible oils in the United Kingdom. The Company also formed a joint venture with Princes Limited in Poland to procure, package, and sell edible oils in Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, and Austria. The Company has a 37.5% interest in Olenex Sarl (Olenex), a joint venture between ADM and Wilmar that produces and sells a comprehensive portfolio of edible oils and fats to customers around the globe. In addition, Olenex markets refined oils and fats from the Company’s plants in the Czech Republic, Germany, the Netherlands, Poland, and the U.K. The Company has a 50.0% interest in SoyVen, a joint venture between ADM and Cargill to provide soybean meal and oil for customers in Egypt. The Company is a major supplier of raw materials to Wilmar, Stratas Foods LLC, Edible Oils Limited, SoyVen, and Olenex. Carbohydrate Solutions The Carbohydrate Solutions segment is engaged in corn and wheat wet and dry milling and other activities. The Carbohydrate Solutions segment converts corn and wheat into products and ingredients used in the food and beverage industry including sweeteners, corn and wheat starches, syrup, glucose, wheat flour, and dextrose. Dextrose and starch are used by the Carbohydrate Solutions segment as feedstocks in other downstream processes. By fermentation of dextrose, the Carbohydrate Solutions segment produces alcohol and other food and animal feed ingredients. Ethyl alcohol is produced by the Company for industrial use in products such as hand sanitizers, as ethanol, or as beverage grade. Ethanol, in gasoline, increases octane and is used as an extender and oxygenate. Corn gluten feed and meal, as well as distillers’ grains, are produced for use as animal feed ingredients. Corn germ, a by-product of the wet milling process, is further processed into vegetable oil and protein meal. Other Carbohydrate Solutions products include citric acids which are used in various food and industrial products. 5 Item 1. BUSINESS (Continued) Effective January 1, 2020, the Company started reporting its newly created dry mill ethanol subsidiary, Vantage Corn Processors (VCP), as a sub-segment within the Carbohydrate Solutions segment. VCP replaces the Bioproducts sub-segment which included the combined results of the Company’s corn dry and wet mill ethanol operations. The wet mill ethanol operations that were previously reported in Bioproducts are now included in the Starches and Sweeteners sub-segment. In addition to dry mill ethanol production, VCP sells/brokers ADM’s wet mill ethanol production as the sole marketer of ethanol produced at the Company’s facilities. The change does not have an impact on the total results of the Carbohydrate Solutions segment. The Company has a 50.0% interest in Hungrana Ltd. which operates a wet corn milling plant in Hungary. The Company has a 50.0% interest in Almidones Mexicanos S.A. which operates a wet corn milling plant in Mexico. The Company has a 40.0% interest in Red Star Yeast Company, LLC, a joint venture between ADM and Lesaffre that produces and sells fresh and dry yeast in the United States and Canada. The Company has a 50.0% interest in Aston Foods and Food Ingredients, a Russian-based sweeteners and starches business. Nutrition The Nutrition segment serves various end markets including food, beverages, nutritional supplements, and feed and premix for livestock, aquaculture, and pet food. The segment engages in the manufacturing, sale, and distribution of a wide array of ingredients and solutions including plant-based proteins, natural flavors, flavor systems, natural colors, emulsifiers, soluble fiber, polyols, hydrocolloids, probiotics, prebiotics, enzymes, botanical extracts, and other specialty food and feed ingredients. The Nutrition segment includes the activities related to the procurement, processing, and distribution of edible beans. The segment also includes activities related to the processing and distribution of formula feeds and animal health and nutrition products and the manufacture of contract and private label pet treats and foods. In January 2020, ADM acquired Yerbalatina, a natural plant-based extracts and ingredients manufacturer. In October 2020, the Company formally launched PlantPlus Foods, a 30% joint venture with Marfrig, one of the world’s leading beef producers and the world’s largest beef patty producer, that will offer a wide range of finished plant-based food products across North and South America, and entered into an agreement with Spiber Inc. (Spiber) to expand the production of Spiber’s innovative Brewed Protein™ polymers for use in apparel and other consumer products. Other Business Other Business includes the Company’s remaining operations as described below. ADM Investor Services, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, is a registered futures commission merchant and a clearing member of all principal commodities exchanges in the U.S. ADM Investor Services International, Limited, a member of several derivative and commodity exchanges and clearing houses in Europe, ADMIS Singapore Pte. Limited, a clearing member of the Singapore exchange, and ADMIS Hong Kong Limited, are wholly owned subsidiaries of ADM offering brokerage services in Europe and Asia. Insurance activities include Agrinational Insurance Company (Agrinational) and its subsidiaries. Agrinational, a wholly owned subsidiary of ADM, provides insurance coverage for certain property, casualty, marine, credit, and other miscellaneous risks of the Company. Agrinational also participates in certain third-party reinsurance arrangements. Corporate Corporate includes the results of early-stage start-up companies within ADM Ventures, which was launched by the Company in 2016. In addition to identifying companies to invest in, ADM Ventures also works on select high-potential, new product development projects and alternative business models. Prior to 2020, Corporate also included the Company’s share of the results of its 43.7% equity interest in Compagnie Industrielle et Financiere des Produits Amylaces SA (Luxembourg) and affiliates (CIP), a joint venture that targets investments in food, feed ingredients, and bioproducts businesses, which was sold in December 2019. 6 Item 1. BUSINESS (Continued) Methods of Distribution The Company’s products are distributed mainly in bulk from processing plants or storage facilities directly to customers’ facilities. The Company has developed a comprehensive transportation capability to efficiently move both commodities and processed products virtually anywhere in the world. The Company owns or leases a significant portion of the trucks, trailers, railroad tank and hopper cars, river barges, towboats, and ocean-going vessels used to transport the Company’s products to its customers. Concentration of Revenues by Product The following products accounted for 10% or more of revenues for the following periods: Status of New Products The Company continues to expand the size and global reach of its business through the development of new products. Acquisitions, especially in the Nutrition segment, expand the Company’s ability to unlock the potential of nature and serve customers’ evolving and expanding nutritional needs through its offering of natural flavor and ingredient products. The Company does not expect any individual new product to have a significant impact on the Company’s revenues in 2021. Source and Availability of Raw Materials A significant majority of the Company’s raw materials are agricultural commodities. In addition, the Company sources specific fruits, vegetables, and nuts for extracts to make flavors and colors. In any single year, the availability and price of these commodities are subject to factors such as changes in weather conditions, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company’s raw materials are procured from thousands of growers, grain elevators, and wholesale merchants in North America, South America, Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA), Asia, and Australia, pursuant primarily to short-term (less than one year) agreements or on a spot basis. The Company is not dependent upon any particular grower, elevator, or merchant as a source for its raw materials. ADM has established several key social and environmental policies that collectively outline expectations for its employees, business partners and contractors, and the Company as a whole with respect to its sourcing operations. These policies set the standards that govern the Company’s approach to raw material sourcing, environmental stewardship, and employee conduct, among other areas, and outline ADM’s positions on issues of widespread public interest. These standards are included in the Company’s Code of Conduct, Environmental Policy, Human Rights Policy, Commitment to No-Deforestation, Statement on Genetically Modified Organisms, Statement on Animal Testing, Commitment to Anti-Corruption Compliance, and ADM Supplier Expectations, all of which are available on the Company’s website (see Item 1, Business - Available Information). Trademarks, Brands, Recipes, and other Intellectual Property The Company owns trademarks, brands, recipes, and other intellectual property including patents, with a net book value of $903 million as of December 31, 2020. The Company does not consider any segment of its business to be dependent upon any single or group of trademarks, brands, recipes, or other intellectual property. 7 Item 1. BUSINESS (Continued) Seasonality, Working Capital Needs, and Significant Customers Since the Company is widely diversified in global agribusiness markets, there are no material seasonal fluctuations in overall global processing volumes and the sale and distribution of its products and services. There is a degree of seasonality in the growing cycles, procurement, and transportation of the Company’s principal raw materials: oilseeds, corn, wheat, and other grains. The prices of agricultural commodities, which may fluctuate significantly and change quickly, directly affect the Company’s working capital requirements. Because the Company has a higher portion of its operations in the northern hemisphere, principally North America and Europe, relative to the southern hemisphere, primarily South America, inventory levels typically peak after the northern hemisphere fall harvest and are generally lower during the northern hemisphere summer months. Working capital requirements have historically trended with inventory levels. No material part of the Company’s business is dependent upon a single customer or very few customers. The Company has seasonal financing arrangements with farmers in certain countries around the world. Typically, advances on these financing arrangements occur during the planting season and are repaid at harvest. Competition The Company has significant competition in the markets in which it operates based principally on price, foreign exchange rates, quality, global supply, and alternative products, some of which are made from different raw materials than those utilized by the Company. Given the commodity-based nature of many of its businesses, the Company, on an ongoing basis, focuses on managing unit costs and improving efficiency through technology improvements, productivity enhancements, and regular evaluation of the Company’s asset portfolio. Research and Development Research and development expense during the year ended December 31, 2020, net of reimbursements of government grants, was $160 million. The Company’s laboratories and technical innovation centers around the world enhance its ability to interact with customers globally, not only to provide flavors, but also to support the sales of other food ingredients. The 2014 acquisition of Wild Flavors approximately doubled the number of scientists and technicians in research and development. Since that time, additional laboratories have been added, including food & beverages applications laboratories in Fort Collins, Colorado, and Bergamo, Italy as well as expanded laboratories in Decatur, Illinois and Shanghai, China. The Company expanded its human health and nutrition portfolio in 2017 with the acquisition of a controlling interest in Biopolis SL (Biopolis), a leading provider of probiotics and genomic services. Biopolis provides genomic sequencing capabilities for the Company’s customers as well as for its internal use. Biopolis also has high through-put biological functionality testing capabilities that can be used to discover new probiotics and nutraceuticals. In January 2018, the Company announced a joint development agreement with Vland Biotech to develop and commercialize enzymes for animal feed. In April 2018, the Company opened its new enzyme development laboratory in Davis, California to advance the research and development of feed enzyme as well as enzymes for internal use. In August 2018, the Company further expanded its probiotics business with the acquisition of Probiotics International Limited. With the acquisition of Neovia in early 2019, ADM further expanded its research and development capabilities in Animal Nutrition, globally. In December 2019, the Company opened a new Animal Nutrition Technology Center in Decatur, Illinois, to further expand its animal nutrition capabilities to support customer innovation in pet and aqua food production in North America. ADM Ventures continues to select high-potential, new product development projects from within its business units. The first internal venture funded project, a new sweetener, has been fully commercialized and is being sold in the United States by ADM’s Carbohydrate Solutions business unit. The team has also launched a new distribution platform for the Company to sell several of its ingredients. ADM Ventures further expanded its equity investments and now has seven promising, early-stage start-up companies in its portfolio including Perfect Day, Nature's Fynd, Geltor, and Air Protein, and is looking at several others in which ADM may choose to invest. These investments also allow for collaboration opportunities for which the team is aggressively pursuing. 8 Item 1. BUSINESS (Continued) The Company is continuing to invest in research to develop a broad range of sustainable materials with an objective to produce key intermediate materials that serve as a platform for producing a variety of sustainable packaging products. Conversion technologies include utilizing expertise in both fermentation and catalysis. The Company’s current portfolio includes products that are in the early development phase and those that are close to pilot plant demonstration. In 2019, the Company announced a joint venture with LG Chem, Ltd. to develop biobased acrylic acid using ingredients from the Company’s corn processing. Acrylic acid is a key element required in the manufacture of superabsorbent polymers used in a range of hygiene products, including diapers. The Company has a memorandum of understanding with P2 Science to evaluate product opportunities in plant-based, renewable chemicals and materials. In October 2020, the Company announced a long-term agreement with Spiber, Inc. (Spiber) to expand the production of Spiber’s innovative brewed protein polymers for use in apparel and other consumer products. The Company also announced in 2020 its plans to collaborate with InnovaFeed on the construction and operation of the world’s largest insect protein production site, collocated with ADM’s corn processing complex in Decatur, Illinois. Environmental and Social Responsibility The Company knows that the health of our natural resources is critical to our future, and that its commitments to sustainable practices will result in a stronger ADM and a better world. ADM is committed to meeting its environmental obligations, while pursuing ways to continually improve the Company’s efforts in both protecting the environment and enhancing environmental sustainability. ADM has a large industrial footprint and believes it is important to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions related to its business activities and the entire agricultural supply chain. The Company continues to use internal and external resources to identify opportunities and take action to reduce its GHG emissions globally to meet its continued commitment to mitigate the effects of climate change. In 2012, the Company established the “15x20” plan, in which the Company set as goals per-unit improvements in energy use, GHG emissions, water and waste to landfill by 2020. After meeting those goals ahead of schedule, ADM engaged a leading engineering professional services firm to conduct an in-depth feasibility carbon reduction study to help shape a new set of goals to combat climate change. In 2020, ADM announced new environmental goals, collectively called “Strive 35” – an ambitious plan to, by 2035, reduce absolute GHG emissions by 25 percent, reduce energy intensity by 15 percent, reduce water intensity by 10 percent, and achieve a 90 percent landfill diversion rate, as part of an aggressive plan to continue to reduce the Company’s environmental footprint. The Company has also committed to develop a global strategy focused on improving community wellbeing in priority watersheds, including water-stressed areas, by 2025. During the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company spent $52 million specifically to improve equipment, facilities, and programs for pollution control and compliance with the requirements of various environmental agencies. There have been no material effects upon the earnings and competitive position of the Company resulting from compliance with applicable laws or regulations enacted or adopted relating to the protection of the environment. A number of jurisdictions where the Company has operations have implemented or are in the process of implementing carbon pricing programs or regulations to reduce greenhouse gas emissions including, but not limited to, the U.S., Canada, Mexico, the E.U. and its member states, and China. The Company’s operations located in countries with effective and applicable carbon pricing and regulatory programs currently meet their obligations in this regard with no significant impact on the earnings and competitive position of the Company. It is difficult at this time to estimate the likelihood of passage, or predict the potential impact, of any additional legislation, regulations or agreements. Potential consequences of new obligations could include increased energy, transportation, raw material, and administrative costs, and may require the Company to make additional investments in its facilities and equipment. The United Nations Development Programme created the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) blueprint as a universal call to action to end poverty, protect the planet, and ensure that all people enjoy peace and prosperity. ADM focuses its efforts toward goals that align with its business objectives and allow the Company to make the greatest contribution towards the achievement of the SDG, specifically Zero Hunger, Clean Water and Sanitation, Decent Work and Economic Growth, Climate Action, and Life On Land. 9 Item 1. BUSINESS (Continued) ADM’s corporate social investment program, ADM Cares, aligns the Company’s corporate giving with its business strategies and sustainability objectives. Through the program, ADM works to sustain and strengthen its commitment to communities where ADM colleagues work, live, and operate by directing funding to initiatives and organizations driving meaningful social, economic, and environmental progress. The ADM Cares team evaluates potential projects submitted for funding to ensure they meet eligibility criteria, such as initiatives that support education, food security and hunger relief, or safe, responsible, and environmentally sound agricultural practices in critical growing regions around the world. Human Capital and Diversity and Inclusion ADM’s purpose of unlocking the power of nature to enrich the quality of life highlights the significant role ADM plays within an essential industry and the critical job each employee has within the Company. ADM has long maintained its Code of Conduct to help the Company achieve the right results, the right way. The code establishes high standards of honesty and integrity for all ADM colleagues and business partners and sets forth specific policies to help ensure that the Company always conducts business fairly and ethically everywhere it operates. The Company’s culture is focused on Integrity, Performance, Innovation, and Inclusion. ADM is a truly global company of approximately 39,000 employees working together to achieve extraordinary results. Talented colleagues can be found in a wide variety of roles – from front-line production workers, supply chain experts who deliver to customers all over the world, engineering teams who continuously improve the Company's operations, sales and commercial teams who work closely with customers, finance professionals, and so many more. ADM continues to develop its workforce to remain relevant and deliver on the Company’s growth aspirations with a strong focus on sustainability. The following tables set forth information about the Company’s employees as of December 31, 2020. Number of Employees by Contract and Region Number of Employees by Type and Gender Percentage of Employees by Level and Gender 10 Item 1. BUSINESS (Continued) Part of ADM’s vision is to continuously strengthen its culture with a diverse and inclusive workforce where all colleagues feel they belong and make meaningful contributions to the success of each other and the Company. ADM brings together colleagues with many different backgrounds, perspectives, and experiences. These global teams drive innovative thinking, creating growth opportunities through diversity of thought. The Company’s comprehensive diversity and inclusion strategy includes four focus areas: Leadership Engagement & Communication, Recruitment, Advancement & Retention, and Networks & Sponsorships. ADM has made a commitment through Paradigm for Parity to achieve gender parity in its senior leadership team by 2030. Since making this commitment in 2018, the Company has improved its gender diversity from 21% to currently 27%. ADM is proud of its achievements to date, and the Company will continue to strengthen diversity within middle management and entry-level hiring so the progress at the senior leadership level is sustainable over the long-term. This is a key cultural strategic priority that will continue to strengthen our ability to innovate and drive profitable growth. At the industry level, ADM has been a key partner in the establishment of Together We Grow, a consortium of agricultural industry leaders united in a shared belief that American agriculture’s best days are yet to come. Emphasizing diversity and inclusion, Together We Grow works to build a modern workforce with the skills, experience, and capabilities needed to keep pace with the growing world. The Company believes diversity and inclusion are key business priorities that will enable ADM to continue innovating, driving growth through customer focus, and delivering outstanding performance for shareholders. Compensation and Benefits ADM offers market-competitive pay, benefits, and services that help meet the needs of its employees. The Company’s global rewards package includes base pay, short-term incentive plans, long-term equity grants, paid time-off, employee assistance programs, and benefits that meet the country-specific competitive markets in which ADM operates. ADM’s global bonus plan has clearly defined metrics and objectives which are the same for all eligible employees – creating a strong team spirit and fostering collaboration among colleagues. Employee Development All ADM employees participate annually in training and development that further increases knowledge, skills, and awareness on current and important topics. In addition, ADM offers many voluntary training opportunities that have largely moved to virtual and on-demand learning. ADM prides itself in offering career opportunities that include global assignments for its high potential talent, internal career growth for those who wish to learn more, and experiential learning through projects, mentorships, and on-the-job development. ADM’s annual voluntary employee turnover rate in 2020 of 7.9% was down from the turnover rate in 2019 of 9.5%, which excluded turnover related to the enhanced early retirement offer in 2019. Workplace Safety ADM is committed to providing a safe working environment for all of its employees and contractors. For the last several years, the Company has been on a journey to a goal of zero injuries – building a safety culture so everyone will go home safely to their families and the things that are most important to them. After almost two years without a fatality, ADM lost five colleagues in 2020. While the Company has made enormous progress in recent years, it continues to take steps to further enhance the safety of its workplaces and maintains a goal of zero fatalities. In 2020, more than 80% of ADM’s sites completed the year without recordable injuries, and more than 90% without lost workday injuries. The Company’s Total Recordable Incident Rate increased from 0.72 in 2019 to 0.77 in 2020 while its Lost Workday Incident Rate increased from 0.16 in 2019 to 0.17 in 2020. 11 Item 1. BUSINESS (Continued) In late 2019, ADM restructured its environmental, health, and safety organization to address areas of opportunity which resulted in an enhanced focus on transportation and maritime safety. The Company also launched two efforts to address occupational safety: – A cross-functional safety culture team to drive improvement through simplification with an initial focus on higher-risk activities. – A coaching and mentoring program to provide leadership engagement and targeted performance improvement plans at underachieving facilities. Through these actions, ADM aims to achieve continuous improvement in 2021, including a 10% reduction in injuries compared to 2020. Available Information The Company’s website is http://www.adm.com. ADM’s annual reports on Form 10-K; quarterly reports on Form 10-Q; current reports on Form 8-K; directors’ and officers’ Forms 3, 4, and 5; and amendments to those reports, if any, are available, free of charge, through its website, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such materials with, or furnishing them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The Company’s Code of Conduct, Corporate Governance Guidelines, and the written charters of the Audit, Compensation/Succession, Nominating/Corporate Governance, Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility, and Executive Committees are also available through its website. References to the Company’s website address in this report are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, and should not be viewed as, an incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website. Therefore, such information should not be considered part of this report. The SEC maintains a website which contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file information electronically with the SEC. The SEC’s website is http://www.sec.gov. Item 1A.