 PART I Item 1. BUSINESS Company Overview Archer-Daniels-Midland Company (the Company or ADM) unlocks the power of nature to provide access to nutrition worldwide. The Company is a global leader in sustainable human and animal nutrition, one of the world’s premier agricultural origination and processing companies, and an innovator in creating sustainable solutions in agriculture, energy, and bio-based alternatives to materials and fuels currently produced from petroleum products. ADM’s breadth, depth, insights, facilities and logistical expertise give the Company unparalleled capabilities to meet needs for food, beverages, health and wellness, and more. From the seed of the idea to the outcome of the solution, ADM enriches the quality of life the world over. The Company is one of the world’s leading producers of ingredients for human and animal nutrition, and other products made from nature. ADM transforms natural products into staple foods, sustainable and renewable industrial products, renewable fuels, and an expansive pantry of food and beverage ingredients and solutions for foods and beverages, supplements, nutrition for pets and livestock and more. ADM also has significant investments and joint ventures that aim to expand or enhance the market for its products or offer other benefits including, but not limited to, geographic or product-line expansion. With an array of unparalleled capabilities across every part of the global food chain, ADM gives its customers an edge in solving global challenges of today and tomorrow. At ADM, sustainable practices and a focus on environmental responsibility are not separate from its primary business: they are integral to the growth strategy of the Company and to the work the Company does every day to serve customers and create value for shareholders. ADM’s board of directors actively oversees the Company’s sustainability strategy through a board-level Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility Committee (Sustainability Committee), and ADM’s Chief Sustainability Officer is part of the core strategy team who reports to the Chief Strategy Officer. Utilizing ADM’s unique position in the agricultural value chain, its extensive global grain elevator and transportation network, and its production facilities, ADM is driving sustainability into every aspect of the agriculture value chain. The Company is actively working to improve the efficiency of its facilities and vehicles, finding alternative uses for waste, reusing and recycling water, and sequestering carbon at its onsite capture and storage facility. ADM works with growers, supporting them with personalized services and innovative technologies; partnering with them to develop and enhance sustainable practices; and transforming their bounty into products for consumers around the globe. ADM does the same with animal nutrition products. Today, more people want to feed their pets the same kind of clean, healthy products they eat themselves and consumers expect livestock and poultry to be fed and raised humanely and sustainably. The Company’s environmental goals, collectively called “Strive 35” – an ambitious plan to, by 2035, reduce from a 2019 baseline absolute Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 25 percent, reduce absolute Scope 3 emissions by 25 percent, reduce energy intensity by 15 percent, reduce water intensity by 10 percent, and achieve a 90 percent landfill diversion rate – are part of an aggressive plan to continue to reduce the Company’s environmental footprint. From plant-based proteins to probiotics, the Company is growing nutrition trends, working closely with customers to create custom, delicious solutions from nature to meet consumer preferences. The Company’s innovation and expertise are helping people live healthier lives. Around the world, ADM’s food scientists, flavorists, and chefs offer innovative solutions for consumers seeking foods, beverages and supplements to support health and wellness. The Company’s global footprint combines with local insights to give ADM the capabilities few other companies have – ensuring that it gets the very best ingredients from around the globe to its customers, wherever they may be. Segment Descriptions The Company’s operations are organized, managed, and classified into three reportable business segments: Ag Services and Oilseeds, Carbohydrate Solutions, and Nutrition. Each of these segments is organized based upon the nature of products and services offered. The Company’s remaining operations are not reportable business segments, as defined by the applicable accounting standard, and are classified as Other Business. Financial information with respect to the Company’s reportable business segments is set forth in Note 17 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” included in Item 8 herein, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” (Item 8). 4 Item 1. BUSINESS (Continued) Ag Services and Oilseeds The Ag Services and Oilseeds segment includes global activities related to the origination, merchandising, transportation, and storage of agricultural raw materials, and the crushing and further processing of oilseeds such as soybeans and soft seeds (cottonseed, sunflower seed, canola, rapeseed, and flaxseed) into vegetable oils and protein meals. Oilseeds products produced and marketed by the segment include ingredients for food, feed, energy, and industrial customers. Crude vegetable oils produced by the segment’s crushing activities are sold “as is” to manufacturers of renewable green diesel and other customers or are further processed by refining, blending, bleaching, and deodorizing into salad oils. Salad oils are sold “as is” or are further processed by hydrogenating and/or interesterifying into margarine, shortening, and other food products. Partially refined oils are used to produce biodiesel and glycols or are sold to other manufacturers for use in chemicals, paints, and other industrial products. Oilseed protein meals are principally sold to third parties to be used as ingredients in commercial livestock and poultry feeds. The Ag Services and Oilseeds segment is also a major supplier of peanuts and peanut-derived ingredients to both the U.S. and export markets. In North America, cotton cellulose pulp is manufactured and sold to the chemical, paper, and other industrial markets. The Ag Services and Oilseeds segment’s grain sourcing, handling, and transportation network (including barge, ocean-going vessel, truck, rail, and container freight services) provides reliable and efficient services to the Company’s customers and agricultural processing operations. The Ag Services and Oilseeds segment also includes agricultural commodity and feed product import, export, and global distribution, and structured trade finance activities. Structured trade finance’s activities include programs under which ADM prepays financial institutions, on a discounted basis, U.S. dollar-denominated letters of credit based on underlying commodity trade flows. In December 2021, the Company entered into a joint venture with Marathon Petroleum Corp. for the production of soybean oil to supply rapidly growing demand for renewable diesel fuel. The Company has a 32.2% interest in Pacificor. Pacificor owns and operates grain export elevators in Kalama, Washington and Portland, Oregon. The Company has a 22.3% equity interest in Wilmar International Limited (Wilmar), a Singapore publicly listed company. Wilmar is a leading global agribusiness group headquartered in Asia engaged in the businesses of packaged oils and packaged foods, oil palm cultivation, oilseeds crushing, edible oils refining, sugar milling and refining, specialty fats, oleo chemicals, biodiesel and fertilizers manufacturing, and grains processing. The Company has a 50.0% interest in Stratas Foods LLC, a joint venture between ADM and ACH Jupiter, LLC, a subsidiary of Associated British Foods, that procures, packages, and sells edible oils in North America. The Company has a 50.0% interest in Edible Oils Limited, a joint venture between ADM and Princes Limited to procure, package, and sell edible oils in the United Kingdom. The Company also formed a joint venture with Princes Limited in Poland to procure, package, and sell edible oils in Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, and Austria. The Company has a 37.5% interest in Olenex Sarl (Olenex), a joint venture between ADM and Wilmar that produces and sells a comprehensive portfolio of edible oils and fats to customers around the globe. In addition, Olenex markets refined oils and fats from the Company’s plants in the Czech Republic, Germany, the Netherlands, Poland, and the U.K. The Company has a 50.0% interest in SoyVen, a joint venture between ADM and Cargill to provide soybean meal and oil for customers in Egypt. The Company is a supplier of raw materials to Wilmar, Stratas Foods LLC, Edible Oils Limited, SoyVen, and Olenex. 5 Item 1. BUSINESS (Continued) Carbohydrate Solutions The Carbohydrate Solutions segment is engaged in corn and wheat wet and dry milling and other activities. The Carbohydrate Solutions segment converts corn and wheat into products and ingredients used in the food and beverage industry including sweeteners, corn and wheat starches, syrup, glucose, wheat flour, and dextrose. Dextrose and starch are used by the Carbohydrate Solutions segment as feedstocks in other downstream processes. By fermentation of dextrose, the Carbohydrate Solutions segment produces alcohol and other food and animal feed ingredients. Ethyl alcohol is produced by the Company for industrial use in products such as hand sanitizers and ethanol for use in gasoline due to its ability to increase octane as an extender and oxygenate. Corn gluten feed and meal, as well as distillers’ grains, are produced for use as animal feed ingredients. Corn germ, a by-product of the wet milling process, is further processed into vegetable oil and protein meal. Other Carbohydrate Solutions products include citric acids which are used in various food and industrial products. The Carbohydrate Solutions segment has announced various memorandums of understanding with potential strategic partners leveraging our core production capabilities and carbon sequestration experience to facilitate the production of low carbon, bio-based products such as sustainable aviation fuel and innovative renewable chemicals. In November 2021, the Company sold its ethanol production complex in Peoria, Illinois. The Company has a 50.0% interest in Hungrana Ltd. which operates a wet corn milling plant in Hungary. The Company has a 50.0% interest in Almidones Mexicanos S.A. which operates a wet corn milling plant in Mexico. The Company has a 40.0% interest in Red Star Yeast Company, LLC, a joint venture between ADM and Lesaffre that produces and sells fresh and dry yeast in the United States and Canada. The Company has a 50.0% interest in Aston Foods and Food Ingredients, a Russian-based sweeteners and starches business. Nutrition The Nutrition segment serves various end markets including food, beverages, nutritional supplements, and feed and premix for livestock, aquaculture, and pet food. The segment engages in the manufacturing, sale, and distribution of a wide array of ingredients and solutions including plant-based proteins, natural flavors, flavor systems, natural colors, emulsifiers, soluble fiber, polyols, hydrocolloids, probiotics, prebiotics, enzymes, botanical extracts, and other specialty food and feed ingredients. The Nutrition segment includes the activities related to the procurement, processing, and distribution of edible beans. The segment also includes activities related to the processing and distribution of formula feeds and animal health and nutrition products and the manufacture of contract and private label pet treats and foods. ADM acquired Golden Farm Production & Commerce Company Limited in April 2021; a 75% majority stake in PetDine, Pedigree Ovens, The Pound Bakery, and NutraDine (collectively, “P4”), premier providers of private label pet treats and supplements, in September 2021; U.S.-based Deerland Probiotics & Enzymes (“Deerland”), a leader in probiotic, prebiotic, and enzyme technology, in November 2021; Sojaprotein, a leading European provider of non-GMO soy ingredients, in November 2021; and Flavor Infusion International, S.A., a full-range provider of flavor and specialty ingredient solutions for customers across Latin America and the Caribbean, in December 2021. Other Business Other Business includes the Company’s remaining operations as described below. ADM Investor Services, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, is a registered futures commission merchant and a clearing member of all principal commodities exchanges in the U.S. ADM Investor Services International Limited, a member of several derivative and commodity exchanges and clearing houses in Europe, ADMIS Singapore Pte. Limited, a clearing member of the Singapore exchange, and ADMIS Hong Kong Limited, are wholly owned subsidiaries of ADM offering brokerage services in Europe and Asia. Insurance activities include Agrinational Insurance Company (Agrinational) and its subsidiaries. Agrinational, a wholly owned subsidiary of ADM, provides insurance coverage for certain property, casualty, marine, credit, and other miscellaneous risks of the Company. Agrinational also participates in certain third-party reinsurance arrangements. 6 Item 1. BUSINESS (Continued) Corporate Corporate includes the results of early-stage start-up companies within ADM Ventures, which was launched by the Company in 2016. In addition to identifying companies to invest in, ADM Ventures also works on select high-potential, new product development projects and alternative business models. Prior to 2020, Corporate also included the Company’s share of the results of its 43.7% equity interest in Compagnie Industrielle et Financiere des Produits Amylaces SA (Luxembourg) and affiliates (CIP), a joint venture that targets investments in food, feed ingredients, and bioproducts businesses, which was sold in December 2019. Methods of Distribution The Company’s products are distributed mainly in bulk from processing plants or storage facilities directly to customers’ facilities. The Company has developed a comprehensive transportation capability to efficiently move both commodities and processed products virtually anywhere in the world. The Company owns or leases a significant portion of the trucks, trailers, railroad tank and hopper cars, river barges, towboats, and ocean-going vessels used to transport the Company’s products to its customers. Concentration of Revenues by Product The following products accounted for 10% or more of revenues for the following periods: Status of New Products The Company continues to expand the size and global reach of its business through the development of new products. Acquisitions, especially in the Nutrition segment, expand the Company’s ability to unlock the potential of nature and serve customers’ evolving and expanding nutritional needs through its offering of natural flavor and ingredient products. The Company does not expect any individual new product to have a significant impact on the Company’s revenues in 2022. Source and Availability of Raw Materials A significant majority of the Company’s raw materials are agricultural commodities. In addition, the Company sources specific fruits, vegetables, and nuts for extracts to make flavors and colors. In any single year, the availability and price of these commodities are subject to factors such as changes in weather conditions, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company’s raw materials are procured from thousands of growers, grain elevators, and wholesale merchants in North America, South America, Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA), Asia, and Australia, pursuant primarily to short-term (less than one year) agreements or on a spot basis. The Company is not dependent upon any particular grower, elevator, or merchant as a source for its raw materials. Some of the principal crops that ADM sources and processes present specific climate change risks. For example, South American soy and global palm present risks of deforestation due to their proximity to the forest and other high-carbon-value landscapes. In addition, row crops such as corn, soy, wheat, and canola present environmental risks when not managed appropriately, such as water quality impairment, erosion, soil degradation, and GHG emissions. However, these crops also present an opportunity to combat climate change through their ability to sequester carbon in the soil using regenerative agricultural practices. ADM has engaged over 13 million acres in sustainable agriculture practices globally. 7 Item 1. BUSINESS (Continued) Under the stewardship of ADM’s board of directors, the Company has established several key social and environmental policies that collectively outline expectations for its employees, business partners and contractors, and the Company as a whole with respect to its sourcing operations. These policies set the standards that govern the Company’s approach to environmental stewardship, employee conduct, and raw material sourcing, among other areas, and outline ADM’s positions on issues of widespread public interest. These standards are included in, among others, the Company’s Code of Conduct, Environment, Health, and Safety Policy, Human Rights Policy, Commitment to Protect Forests, Biodiversity, and Communities, Statement on Genetically Modified Organisms, Statement on Animal Testing, Commitment to Anti-Corruption Compliance, Protocol for Managing Supplier Non-Compliance and ADM Supplier Expectations, all of which are available on the Company’s website (see Item 1, Business - Available Information). In addition to policies, a portion of the Company’s commodity sourcing is conducted using third-party certification programs including ADM Responsible Soy, Biomass Biofuel Sustainability Voluntary Scheme, Round Table for Responsible Soy, International Sustainability and Carbon Certification, Round Table on Sustainable Palm Oil, and U.S. Soy Sustainability Assurance Protocol. These programs have standards that are established to provide transparency on specific sustainability-related criteria. ADM procures canola, soybeans, and palm under these programs. The Company aims to achieve full traceability of direct and indirect soy suppliers in South America by the end of 2022 and aims to eliminate all deforestation in its supply chain by the end of 2030. Trademarks, Brands, Recipes, and other Intellectual Property The Company owns trademarks, brands, recipes, and other intellectual property including patents, with a net book value of $841 million as of December 31, 2021. The Company does not consider any segment of its business to be dependent upon any single or group of trademarks, brands, recipes, or other intellectual property. Seasonality, Working Capital Needs, and Significant Customers Since the Company is widely diversified in global agribusiness markets, there are no material seasonal fluctuations in overall global processing volumes and the sale and distribution of its products and services. There is a degree of seasonality in the growing cycles, procurement, and transportation of the Company’s principal raw materials: oilseeds, corn, wheat, and other grains. The prices of agricultural commodities, which may fluctuate significantly and change quickly, directly affect the Company’s working capital requirements. Because the Company has a higher portion of its operations in the northern hemisphere, principally North America and Europe, relative to the southern hemisphere, primarily South America, inventory levels typically peak after the northern hemisphere fall harvest and are generally lower during the northern hemisphere summer months. Working capital requirements have historically trended with inventory levels. No material part of the Company’s business is dependent upon a single customer or very few customers. The Company has seasonal financing arrangements with farmers in certain countries around the world. Typically, advances on these financing arrangements occur during the planting season and are repaid at harvest. Competition The Company has significant competition in the markets in which it operates based principally on price, foreign exchange rates, quality, global supply, and alternative products, some of which are made from different raw materials than those utilized by the Company. Given the commodity-based nature of many of its businesses, the Company, on an ongoing basis, focuses on managing unit costs and improving efficiency through technology improvements, productivity enhancements, and regular evaluation of the Company’s asset portfolio. Research and Development Research and development expense during the year ended December 31, 2021, net of reimbursements of government grants, was $171 million. 8 Item 1. BUSINESS (Continued) The Company’s laboratories and technical innovation centers around the world enhance its ability to interact with customers globally, not only to provide flavors, but also to support the sales of other food ingredients. Since the acquisition of Wild Flavors in 2014, additional laboratories have been added, including food & beverages applications laboratories in Fort Collins, Colorado, and Bergamo, Italy and expanded laboratories in Decatur, Illinois, Davis, California, Rolle, Switzerland, and Shanghai, China. In 2021, the Company also opened a plant-based innovation laboratory in ADM’s Biopolis research hub in Singapore to develop nutritious products to meet the growing food and beverage demand in the Asia-Pacific region. The Company expanded its human health and nutrition portfolio in 2017 with the acquisition of a controlling interest in Biopolis SL (Biopolis), a leading provider of probiotics and genomic services. Biopolis provides genomic sequencing capabilities for the Company’s customers as well as for its internal use. Biopolis also has high through-put biological functionality testing capabilities that can be used to discover new probiotics and nutraceuticals. In January 2018, the Company announced a joint development agreement with Vland Biotech to develop and commercialize enzymes for animal feed. In April 2018, the Company opened its new enzyme development laboratory in Davis, California to advance the research and development of feed enzyme as well as enzymes for internal use. In August 2018, the Company further expanded its probiotics business with the acquisition of Probiotics International Limited. In October 2021, the Company announced an agreement with Qingdao Vland Biotech Group Co., Ltd., a leading producer of enzymes and probiotics, to form a joint venture to manufacture and sell human probiotics to serve the growing Chinese demand. With the acquisition of Neovia in early 2019, ADM further expanded its research and development capabilities in Animal Nutrition, globally. In December 2019, the Company opened a new Animal Nutrition technology center in Decatur, Illinois, to further expand its animal nutrition capabilities to support customer innovation in pet and aqua food production in North America. In November 2021, the Company opened a new animal nutrition laboratory in Rolle, Switzerland to support the development of science-based feed additives to meet worldwide customer needs for pet food, aquaculture, and livestock species. ADM Ventures continues to select high-potential, new product development projects in partnership with the business units. The distribution platform that was launched by the team for ADM to sell several of its ingredients has been successful for revenue growth and market and consumer insights. ADM Ventures further expanded its equity investments and now has early-stage start-up companies in its portfolio which are focused on developing products for human and animal nutrition, and is looking at several others in which ADM may choose to invest. These investments also allow for strategic insights as well as collaboration opportunities for which the team is aggressively pursuing. ADM Ventures portfolio of investments are primarily accounted for at cost and recorded in Other Assets in the Company’s consolidated balance sheets. The Company is continuing to invest in research to develop a broad range of key intermediate materials that serve as a platform for producing a variety of sustainable packaging products. Conversion technologies include utilizing expertise in fermentation, process chemistry, and catalysis. The Company’s current portfolio includes products that are in the early development phase and those that are close to pilot plant demonstration. In September 2021, the Company announced a memorandum of understanding (MOU) with LG Chem, a leading global diversified chemical company, to explore US-based production of lactic acid to meet growing demand for a wide variety of plant-based products, including bioplastics, through the creation of two joint ventures. In October 2021, the Company announced making an equity investment in Acies Bio, a Slovenia-based biotechnology company specializing in R&D and manufacturing services for developing and scaling synthetic biology and precision fermentation technologies for food, agriculture and industrial applications. In October 2021, the Company announced a MOU with Gevo, Inc., a pioneer in transforming renewable energy into low carbon, energy-dense liquid hydrocarbons, to support the production of up to 500 million gallons of sustainable aviation fuel and other low carbon-footprint hydrocarbon fuel. In November 2021, the Company announced an agreement to form a 50-50 joint venture with Asia Sustainable Foods Platform, a wholly-owned company of Temasek, to provide technology development and precision fermentation for companies serving the growing consumer demand for a wide variety of bio-based products, including alternative protein, in Singapore and the wider Asia-Pacific region. The Company has a MOU with P2 Science to evaluate product opportunities in plant-based, renewable chemicals and materials. 9 Item 1. BUSINESS (Continued) In October 2020, the Company announced a long-term agreement with Spiber, Inc. (Spiber) to expand the production of Spiber’s innovative brewed protein polymers for use in apparel and other consumer products. The Company also announced in 2020 its plans to collaborate with InnovaFeed on the construction and operation of the world’s largest insect protein production site, collocated with ADM’s corn processing complex in Decatur, Illinois. Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) The Company knows that the health of our natural resources is critical to our future, and that its commitments to sustainable practices will result in a stronger ADM and a better world. ADM is committed to being a force for change in developing innovative, sustainable solutions in agriculture, food and nutrition, energy, and packaging materials while pursuing ways to continually improve the Company’s efforts in both protecting the environment and enhancing environmental sustainability. The United Nations Development Programme created the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) blueprint as a universal call to action to end poverty, protect the planet, and ensure that all people enjoy peace and prosperity. ADM focuses its efforts toward goals that align with its business objectives and allow the Company to make the greatest contribution towards the achievement of the SDG, specifically Zero Hunger, Clean Water and Sanitation, Decent Work and Economic Growth, Climate Action, and Life On Land. Governance The Sustainability Committee of the Board actively oversees the Company’s objectives, goals, strategies, and activities relating to sustainability and corporate responsibility matters. The Sustainability Committee also oversees the Company’s compliance with sustainability and corporate responsibility laws and regulations, assesses performance relating to industry benchmarks, and assists the Board of Directors in ensuring that the Company operates as a sustainable organization and responsible corporate citizen in order to enhance shareholder value and protect ADM’s reputation. The Company’s Chief Sustainability Officer works with the Chairman of the Sustainability Committee to set the agendas for the meetings and also attends the meetings. As for ADM management, the Executive Council of ADM, the Company’s highest strategic and operational body, provides close supervision of the Company’s ESG efforts and an in-depth review of sustainability issues. Because the Company considers sustainability critical to its strategic planning and mergers and acquisitions efforts, the Chief Sustainability Officer reports to the Chief Strategy Officer and is an important part of the strategy team. Furthermore, regional sustainability teams, along with the corporate sustainability team, support the Chief Sustainability Officer to drive sustainability efforts in the Company’s facilities and supply chains around the world. ADM’s sustainability efforts are also supported by the Centers of Excellence (CoE) that drive efficiency programs in their areas of focus such as the Utilities CoE, Diversity, Equity and Inclusion CoE, and Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) CoE. Strategy The Company aims to mitigate climate change through renewable product and process innovations, supply chain commitments, and a strategic approach to operational excellence with a focus on enhancing the efficiency of ADM’s production plants throughout its global operations. ADM believes sustainability is critical to its future growth strategy. ADM’s strategic plan of sustainable growth leverages the trends and technologies in sustainability to help the Company grow and create value for its stakeholders. Ag Services and Oilseeds is focused on traceability of sourcing and differentiation and working with growers on low carbon agricultural products. Carbohydrate Solutions is focused on decarbonization as a business, and biosolutions and biomaterials, including fuel solutions from agricultural products to replace petroleum-based products. Nutrition is focused on developing alternative proteins that can reduce the amount of animal-based proteins that are sources of methane and GHG emissions. The growth of these projects and businesses will be integral to supporting the objective of helping the planet limit total global warming to the 1.5°C threshold indicated by the United Nations. Moreover, ADM has a large industrial footprint and believes it is important to reduce GHG emissions related to its business activities and the entire agricultural supply chain. The Company continues to use internal and external resources to identify opportunities and take action to reduce its GHG emissions globally to meet its continued commitment to mitigate the effects of climate change. 10 Item 1. BUSINESS (Continued) In 2020, ADM announced its environmental stewardship goals, collectively called “Strive 35” – an ambitious plan to, by 2035, reduce absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 25 percent from a 2019 baseline, reduce energy intensity by 15 percent, reduce water intensity by 10 percent, and achieve a 90 percent landfill diversion rate. To support the Company's Strive 35 environmental goals, ADM developed a feasibility study with a leading engineering professional services firm that provides the technology pathway for absolute reduction of GHG by 2035. The Company has also committed to develop a global strategy focused on improving community wellbeing in priority watersheds, including water-stressed areas, by 2025. In 2021, ADM added 5-year interim targets to ensure the Company stays on track to meet its 2035 goals. By 2025, the Company aims to reduce absolute GHG emissions by 1.5%, reduce energy intensity and water intensity by 6% and 5%, respectively, and achieve 87% of its waste diverted from landfill. In 2021, ADM announced its Scope 3 GHG reduction goal, focused upon the five most material Scope 3 categories for the Company: purchased goods and services; fuel and energy related emissions; upstream transportation and distribution; waste; and processing of solid products/goods. ADM aims to reduce its absolute Scope 3 emissions by 25% from a 2019 baseline by 2035. The Company anticipates spending between $170 million to $300 million on capital projects to achieve the Strive 35 targets. In 2021, $15 million was spent on projects in support of these goals. During the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company spent $57 million specifically to improve equipment, facilities, and programs for pollution control and compliance with the requirements of various environmental agencies. There have been no material effects upon the earnings and competitive position of the Company resulting from compliance with applicable laws or regulations enacted or adopted relating to the protection of the environment. ADM’s corporate social investment program, ADM Cares, aligns the Company’s corporate giving with its business strategies and sustainability objectives. Through the program, ADM works to sustain and strengthen its commitment to communities where ADM colleagues work, live, and operate by directing funding to initiatives and organizations driving meaningful social, economic, and environmental progress. The ADM Cares team evaluates potential projects submitted for funding to ensure they meet eligibility criteria, such as initiatives that support education, food security and hunger relief, or safe, responsible, and environmentally sound agricultural practices in critical growing regions around the world. Risk Management See Item 1A, “Risk Factors” for the discussion of climate-related risks. Metrics and Targets Metrics and targets are available in ADM's Corporate Sustainability Report which can be accessed through its website at http://www.adm.com. References to the Company’s website address in this report are provided as a convenience and are not incorporated by reference. See Available Information on page 15 for more information. Scenario Analysis In line with the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-Related Disclosures, ADM conducted an analysis using three scenarios: 1.5°C (based on IPCC SSP1), 2°C (based on IEA WEO 450 Scenario), and 2.6°C (based on IEA INDC Scenario). The first scenario assumes a rapid transition to a low carbon world in the next decade, limiting temperature increase to 1.5°C. This involves a high degree of transformation across the economy. Under this scenario, the worst anticipated physical impacts of climate change are avoided. The second scenario involves ambitious actions to mitigate climate change, limiting temperature increase to 2°C. This scenario requires greater policy action; however, there is still an increase in physical climate-related impacts. The third scenario is based on the current status quo with no changes to policies or actions and an anticipated increase in global temperature by 2.6°C resulting in increased physical impacts of climate change. ADM used these scenarios as written by the sources, except in the case of the third, status quo scenario, where transition risks were evaluated based on the Company’s existing commitments: Strive 35. 11 Item 1. BUSINESS (Continued) In each of the scenarios, the Company identified potential sourcing shifts and limitations, operational changes, physical impacts, and opportunities. The primary risks identified fall into two categories: physical and transition. Key opportunities are related to products and services offerings. Physical Risks • Increased severity and frequency of extreme weather events such as hurricanes/cyclones and floods could lead to increased direct costs from the disruption of supply chains and impair the Company’s ability to deliver products to customers in a timely manner. • Increased severity and frequency of extreme weather events such as hurricanes/cyclones and floods could lead to increased sourcing costs due to limited availability of agricultural commodities and impact ADM’s ability to produce goods, which would directly affect revenues. Transition Risks • Emerging regulation and carbon pricing mechanisms could result in increased operational costs and/or tax liabilities in the short to medium term. • Market demand has a direct effect on production, as well as sustainable sourcing initiatives. Changes in consumer demands could result in additional cost of implementation that may not be overcome by product sales. • ADM uses coal-fired cogeneration technology to meet a sizeable portion of its energy demand. The Company is working to reduce the carbon footprint of its operations and making capital investments in its facilities and new technologies. Products and Services Opportunities • Development and expansion of low-emission goods and services could lead to increased revenues resulting from increased demand. As various renewable fuel standards are implemented around the world, ADM has an opportunity to capitalize on the increased demand through the production and sale of ethanol, biodiesel, and renewable green diesel. • As more businesses and consumers look to renewable products, development of new products or services could lead to increased revenues through access to new and emerging markets. The Company reviewed the results of the scenario analysis with a cross-functional team of individuals from finance, strategy, sustainability, operations, legal, and risk management. As part of the Company’s Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) process, the risks identified from the scenario analysis have been reviewed by the ERM team for mitigation actions. Human Capital and Diversity and Inclusion ADM’s purpose of unlocking the power of nature to enrich the quality of life highlights the significant role ADM plays within an essential industry and the critical job each employee has within the Company. ADM has long maintained its Code of Conduct to help the Company achieve the right results, the right way. The code establishes high standards of honesty and integrity for all ADM colleagues and business partners and sets forth specific policies to help ensure that the Company always conducts business fairly and ethically everywhere it operates. The Company’s culture is focused on Integrity, Performance, Innovation, Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion. ADM is a truly global company of approximately 41,000 employees working together to achieve extraordinary results. Talented colleagues can be found in a wide variety of roles – from front-line production workers, supply chain experts who deliver to customers all over the world, engineering teams who continuously improve the Company's operations, sales and commercial teams who work closely with customers, finance professionals, and so many more. ADM continues to develop its workforce to remain relevant and deliver on the Company’s growth aspirations with a strong focus on sustainability. 12 Item 1. BUSINESS (Continued) The following tables set forth information about the Company’s employees as of December 31, 2021. Number of Employees by Contract and Region Number of Employees by Type and Gender Percentage of Employees by Level and Gender Part of ADM’s vision is to promote a diverse workplace with equitable opportunities for all its employees within an inclusive culture to make sure all colleagues globally feel they belong and make meaningful contributions to the success of each other and the Company. ADM brings together colleagues with many different backgrounds, perspectives, and experiences. These global teams drive innovative thinking, creating growth opportunities through diversity of thought. The Company’s comprehensive diversity, equity, and inclusion (DE&I) strategy includes four focus areas: Leadership Engagement & Communication, Recruitment, Advancement & Retention, and Networks & Sponsorships. In order to ensure that the Company’s global DE&I strategy aligns with its business strategy, ADM reinstalled a global DE&I council with strong presence in four regions of the world. ADM has made a commitment through Paradigm for Parity® to achieve gender parity in its senior leadership team by 2030. Since making this commitment in 2018, the Company has improved its gender diversity from 21% to currently 26%. ADM is proud of its achievements to date, and the Company will continue to strengthen diversity within middle management and entry-level hiring so the progress at the senior leadership level is sustainable over the long-term. This is a key cultural strategic priority that will continue to strengthen our ability to innovate and drive profitable growth. At the industry level, ADM has been a key partner in the establishment of Together We Grow, a consortium of agricultural industry leaders united in a shared belief that American agriculture’s best days are yet to come. Emphasizing diversity and inclusion, Together We Grow works to build a modern workforce with the skills, experience, and capabilities needed to keep pace with the growing world. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee has worked hard to recommend nominees who have skills and experiences relevant to ADM’s strategy and operations and who reflect the diversity of the world around us. As of December 31, 2021, 58% of ADM’s twelve board members are diverse – six are African-American, Hispanic or Asian, and three are women. Detailed information with respect to the Board’s composition is set forth in “Proxy Summary– Director Nominee Diversity, Age, Tenure, and Independence” of the definitive proxy statement for the Company’s annual meeting of stockholders to be filed on or before April 30, 2022 and is incorporated herein by reference. 13 Item 1. BUSINESS (Continued) The Company believes diversity, equity, and inclusion are key business priorities that will enable ADM to continue innovating, driving growth through customer focus, and delivering outstanding performance for shareholders. In 2021, ADM launched the first of its Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) focused on women as part of the Company’s DE&I vision and strategy. The ERGs, also known as Affinity Groups, are voluntary, employee-led groups where colleagues with shared experiences, interests or goals can come together in a safe space to provide support, build a sense of community, and promote personal and professional development. ADM also held the Global Women’s Leadership Summit – a two-day virtual event aimed at inspiring and motivating the Company’s women leaders, as well as providing them with tools to help navigate career development to advance more women into senior leadership roles. The summit, which took place in March 2021, featured motivational speakers and roundtable discussions with members of ADM’s top leadership, Executive Committee, and members of the Board of Directors, as well as a representative from Paradigm for Parity®, a coalition of business leaders dedicated to addressing the leadership gender gap in corporate America. Compensation and Benefits ADM offers market-competitive pay, benefits, and services that help meet the needs of its employees. The Company’s global rewards package includes base pay, short-term incentive plans, long-term equity grants, paid time-off, employee assistance programs, and benefits that meet the country-specific competitive markets in which ADM operates. ADM’s global bonus plan has clearly defined metrics and objectives which are the same for all eligible employees – creating a strong team spirit and fostering collaboration among colleagues. Employee Development All ADM employees participate annually in training and development that further increases knowledge, skills, and awareness on current and important topics. In addition, ADM offers many voluntary training opportunities that have largely moved to virtual and on-demand learning. ADM prides itself in offering equitable career opportunities that include global assignments for its high potential talent, internal career growth for those who wish to learn more, and experiential learning through projects, mentorships, and on-the-job development. ADM’s annual voluntary employee turnover rate in 2021 of 11.3% was up from the turnover rate in 2020 of 7.9%. Workplace Safety ADM is committed to providing a safe working environment for all of its employees and contractors. For the last several years, the Company has been on a journey to a goal of zero injuries – building a safety culture so everyone will go home safely to their families and the things that are most important to them. In 2021, about 80% of ADM’s sites completed the year without recordable injuries, and about 90% without lost workday injuries. The Company’s Total Recordable Incident Rate decreased from 0.77 in 2020 to 0.73 in 2021 while its Lost Workday Incident Rate increased from 0.17 in 2020 to 0.21 in 2021. 14 Item 1. BUSINESS (Continued) ADM finished 2021 with no fatalities and a 50% reduction in serious injuries. The Company continues to take steps to further enhance the safety of its workplaces and maintains a goal of zero fatalities. Through the guidance of the Environmental, Health, and Safety CoE, the operations teams focused on three programs to reduce the most serious injuries: – “Take Control” program, which identified over 65,000 machine access and guarding opportunities globally; – Near-miss Reporting and Investigation; and – New Colleague Integration program. Through continued application of these programs, ADM aims to achieve a 14% reduction in recordable injuries in 2022 compared to 2021. Available Information The Company’s website is http://www.adm.com. ADM’s annual reports on Form 10-K; quarterly reports on Form 10-Q; current reports on Form 8-K; directors’ and officers’ Forms 3, 4, and 5; and amendments to those reports, if any, are available, free of charge, through its website, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such materials with, or furnishing them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The Company’s Code of Conduct, Corporate Governance Guidelines, and the written charters of the Audit, Compensation and Succession, Nominating and Corporate Governance, Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility, and Executive Committees are also available through its website. References to the Company’s website address in this report are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, and should not be viewed as, an incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website. Therefore, such information should not be considered part of this report. The SEC maintains a website which contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file information electronically with the SEC. The SEC’s website is http://www.sec.gov. Item 1A.