 PART I Item 1. Business Overview Brown-Forman Corporation (the “Company,” “Brown-Forman,” “we,” “us,” or “our” below) was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1933, successor to a business founded in 1870 as a partnership and later incorporated under the laws of the Commonwealth of Kentucky in 1901. We primarily manufacture, distill, bottle, import, export, market, and sell a wide variety of beverage alcohol products under recognized brands. We employ approximately 4,700 people (excluding individuals that work on a part-time or temporary basis) on six continents, including approximately 2,600 people in the United States (approximately 14% of which are represented by a union) and 1,200 people in Louisville, Kentucky, USA, home of our world headquarters. According to International Wine & Spirit Research (IWSR), we are the largest American-owned spirits and wine company with global reach. We are a “controlled company” under New York Stock Exchange rules because the Brown family owns more than 50% of our voting stock. Taking into account ownership of shares of our non-voting stock, the Brown family also controls more than 50% of the economic ownership in Brown-Forman. For a discussion of recent developments, see “Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Executive Summary.” 5 Brands Beginning in 1870 with Old Forester Kentucky Straight Bourbon Whisky – our founding brand – and spanning the generations since, we have built a portfolio of more than 40 spirit, ready-to-drink (RTD) cocktail, and wine brands that includes some of the best-known and most loved trademarks in our industry. The most important brand in our portfolio is Jack Daniel's Tennessee Whiskey, which was ranked in the 2020 Interbrand “Best Global Brands” as the most valuable global spirits brand in the world and the third most valuable beverage alcohol brand. Jack Daniel's Tennessee Whiskey is the largest American whiskey brand in the world and the fourth-largest premium spirits brand of any kind, according to Impact Databank's “Top 100 Premium Spirits Brands Worldwide” 1 list. Our other leading global brands on the Worldwide Impact list are Finlandia, which is the twelfth-largest-selling vodka; Jack Daniel's Tennessee Honey, which is the second-largest-selling flavored whiskey; and el Jimador, which is the seventh-largest-selling tequila. Woodford Reserve and Old Forester were once again selected for the Impact “Hot Brands” 1 list, marking eight and three consecutive years on the list, respectively. Gentleman Jack, Herradura, and Jack Daniel's Tennessee Apple were also named to the “Hot Brands” 1 list. Principal Brands Jack Daniel's Tennessee Whiskey Korbel California Champagnes 5 Jack Daniel's RTD 2 Korbel California Brandy 5 Jack Daniel's Tennessee Honey Herradura Tequilas 6 Gentleman Jack Rare Tennessee Whiskey Finlandia Vodkas Jack Daniel's Tennessee Fire Sonoma-Cutrer California Wines Jack Daniel's Tennessee Apple Old Forester Kentucky Straight Bourbon Whisky Jack Daniel's Single Barrel Collection 3 Old Forester Whiskey Row Series Jack Daniel's Tennessee Rye Old Forester Kentucky Straight Rye Whisky Jack Daniel's Winter Jack GlenDronach Single Malt Scotch Whisky Jack Daniel's No. 27 Gold Tennessee Whiskey Benriach Single Malt Scotch Whisky Jack Daniel's Sinatra Select Glenglassaugh Single Malt Scotch Whisky Jack Daniel's Bottled-in-Bond Chambord Liqueur Woodford Reserve Kentucky Bourbon Pepe Lopez Tequila Woodford Reserve Double Oaked Antiguo Tequila Woodford Reserve Kentucky Rye Whiskey Slane Irish Whiskey Woodford Reserve Kentucky Straight Malt Whiskey Fords Gin Woodford Reserve Kentucky Straight Wheat Whiskey Coopers' Craft Kentucky Bourbon el Jimador Tequilas 4 Part Time Rangers RTDs 7 el Jimador New Mix RTDs 1 Impact Databank, March 2021. 2 Jack Daniel's RTD includes Jack Daniel's & Cola, Jack Daniel's Country Cocktails, Jack Daniel's & Diet Cola, Jack & Ginger, Jack Daniel's Double Jack, Gentleman Jack & Cola, Jack Daniel's American Serve, Jack Daniel's Tennessee Honey RTD, Jack Daniel's Berry, Jack Daniel's Lynchburg Lemonade, and Jack Daniel's Whiskey & Seltzer. 3 The Jack Daniel's Single Barrel Collection includes Jack Daniel's Single Barrel Select, Jack Daniel's Single Barrel Barrel Proof, Jack Daniel's Single Barrel Rye, and Jack Daniel's Single Barrel 100 Proof. 4 el Jimador Tequilas comprise all full-strength expressions of el Jimador. 5 Korbel is not an owned brand. We sell Korbel products under contract in the United States and other select markets. 6 Herradura Tequilas comprise all expressions of Herradura. 7 Acquired in fiscal 2021. See “Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Results of Operations – Fiscal 2021 Brand Highlights” for brand performance details. Our vision in marketing is to be the best brand-builder in the industry. We build our brands by investing in platforms that we believe create enduring connections with our consumers. These platforms cover a wide spectrum of activities, including media advertising (TV, radio, print, outdoor, digital, and social), consumer and trade promotions, sponsorships, and visitors' center programs at our distilleries and our winery. We expect to grow our sales and profits by consistently delivering creative, responsible marketing programs that drive brand recognition, brand trial, brand loyalty, and ultimately, consumer demand around the world. 6 Markets We sell our products in over 170 countries around the world. The United States, our most important market, accounted for 50% of our net sales in fiscal 2021 and the other 50% were outside of the United States. The table below shows the percentage of total net sales for our largest markets in our three most recent fiscal years: For details about net sales in our largest markets, see “Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Results of Operations – Fiscal 2021 Market Highlights.” For details about our reportable segment and for additional geographic information about net sales and long-lived assets, see Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” For details on risks related to our global operations, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” Distribution Network and Customers Our distribution network, or our “route to consumer” (RTC), varies depending on (a) the laws and regulatory framework for trade in beverage alcohol by market, (b) our assessment of a market's long-term attractiveness and competitive dynamics, (c) the relative profitability of distribution options available to us, (d) the structure of the retail and wholesale trade in a market, and (e) our portfolio's development stage in a market. As these factors change, we evaluate our RTC strategy and, from time to time, adapt our model. In the United States, which generally prohibits spirits and wine manufacturers from selling their products directly to consumers, we sell our brands either to distributors or to state governments (in states that directly control alcohol sales) that then sell to retail customers and consumers. Outside the United States, we use a variety of RTC models, which can be grouped into three categories: owned distribution, partner, and government-controlled markets. We own and operate distribution companies in Australia, Brazil, Czechia, France, Germany, Korea, Mexico, Poland, Spain, Thailand, Turkey, and the United Kingdom. In these owned-distribution markets, and in a large portion of the Travel Retail channel, we sell our products directly to retailers or wholesalers. In many other markets, including Italy, Japan, Russia, and South Africa, we rely on third parties to distribute our brands, generally under fixed-term distribution contracts. In Canada, we sell our products to provincial governments. We recently announced our plans to move Belgium and Taiwan to owned distribution in fiscal 2022 and Russia in fiscal 2023. We believe that our customer relationships are good and our exposure to concentrations of credit risk is limited due to the diverse geographic areas covered by our operations and our thorough evaluation of each customer. In fiscal 2021, our two largest customers were Republic National Distributing Company and Breakthru Beverage Group, which accounted for approximately 19% and 13% of consolidated net sales, respectively. Collectively, these two customers distribute our brands across most of the United States. Although the loss of any large customer for an extended period would reduce our net sales and operating income, we do not anticipate this happening due to consumer demand for our products and our relationships with our customers. No other customer accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated net sales in fiscal 2021. Seasonality Holiday buying makes the fourth calendar quarter the peak season for our business. Approximately 30% of our net sales for fiscal 2019, fiscal 2020, and fiscal 2021 were in the fourth calendar quarter of each year. 7 Competition Trade information indicates that we are one of the largest global suppliers of premium spirits. According to IWSR, for calendar year 2020, the ten largest global spirits companies controlled approximately 20% of the total spirits volume sold around the world. While we believe that the overall market environment offers considerable growth opportunities for us, our industry is, and will remain, highly competitive. We compete against many global, regional, and local brands in a variety of categories of beverage alcohol, but our brands compete primarily in the industry's premium-and-above price points. Our competitors include major global spirits and wine companies, such as Bacardi Limited, Beam Suntory Inc., Becle S.A.B. de C.V., Davide Campari-Milano N.V., Diageo PLC, LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton SE, Pernod Ricard SA, and Rémy Cointreau. In addition, particularly in the United States, we compete with national companies and craft spirit brands, many of which entered the market in the last few years. Brand recognition, brand provenance, quality of product and packaging, availability, flavor profile, and price affect consumers' choices among competing brands in our industry. Other factors also influence consumers, including advertising, promotions, merchandising at the point of sale, expert or celebrity endorsement, social media and word of mouth, and the timing and relevance of new product introductions. Although some competitors have substantially greater resources than we do, we believe that our competitive position is strong, particularly as it relates to brand awareness, quality, availability, and relevance of new product introductions. Ingredients and Other Supplies The principal raw materials used in manufacturing and packaging our distilled spirits, liqueurs, RTD products, and wines are shown in the table below. Principal Raw Materials Distilled Spirits Liqueurs RTD Products Wines Packaging Agave Flavorings Flavorings Grapes Aluminum cans Barley Neutral spirits Malt Wood Cartons Corn Sugar Neutral spirits Closures Malted barley Water Sugar Glass bottles Rye Whiskey Tequila Labels Sugar Wine Water PET 1 bottles Water Whiskey Wood 1 Polyethylene terephthalate (PET) is a polymer used in non-glass containers. Currently, we are managing through the impact of some global supply chain disruptions and are deploying a number of risk mitigation strategies to address the various constraints on our business. While we are experiencing some supply shortages at this time, we do not view them as significant or to have a material impact on our financial results. From time to time, our agricultural ingredients (agave, barley, corn, grapes, malted barley, rye, and wood) could be adversely affected by weather and other forces out of our control that might constrain supply or reduce our inventory below desired levels for optimum production. Whiskeys and certain tequilas and other distilled spirits must be aged. Because we must schedule production years in advance to meet projected future demand, our inventories of these products may be larger in relation to sales and total assets than in many other businesses. For details on risks related to the unavailability of raw materials and the inherent uncertainty in forecasting supply and demand, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” Intellectual Property Our intellectual property includes trademarks, copyrights, proprietary packaging and trade dress, proprietary manufacturing technologies, know-how, and patents. Our intellectual property, especially our trademarks, is essential to our business. We register our trademarks broadly around the world, focusing primarily on where we sell or expect to sell our products. We protect our intellectual property rights vigorously but fairly. We have licensed some of our trademarks to third parties for use with services or on products other than alcoholic beverages, which enhances the awareness and protection of our brands. Depending on the jurisdiction, trademarks are valid as long as they are in use and/or their registrations are properly maintained. We also have various licenses and distribution agreements for the production, sale, and marketing of our products, and products of others. These licenses and distribution agreements have varying terms and durations. 8 For details on risks related to the protection of our intellectual property, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” For details on our most important brands, see “Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Results of Operations – Fiscal 2021 Brand Highlights.” Regulatory Environment Federal, state, local, and foreign authorities regulate how we produce, store, transport, distribute, market, and sell our products. Some countries and local jurisdictions prohibit or restrict the marketing or sale of distilled spirits in whole or in part. In the United States, at the federal level, the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau of the U.S. Department of the Treasury regulates the spirits and wine industry with respect to the production, blending, bottling, labeling, advertising, sales, and transportation of beverage alcohol. Similar regulatory regimes exist at the state level and in most non-U.S. jurisdictions where we sell our products. In addition, beverage alcohol products are subject to customs duties, excise taxes, and/or sales taxes in many countries, including taxation at the federal, state, and local level in the United States. Many countries set their own distilling and maturation requirements; for example, under U.S. federal and state regulations, bourbon and Tennessee whiskeys must be aged in new, charred oak barrels; we typically age our whiskeys at least three years. Mexican authorities regulate the production and bottling of tequilas; they mandate minimum aging periods for extra anejo (three years), anejo (one year), and reposado (two months). Irish whiskey must be matured at least three years in a wood cask, such as oak, on the island of Ireland. Scotch whisky must be matured in oak casks for at least three years in Scotland. We comply with all of the above laws and regulations. Our operations are subject to various environmental protection statutes and regulations, and our policy is to comply with them. 9 Integrated Strategy and Performance For more than 150 years, Brown-Forman and the Brown family have been committed to driving sustainable growth and preserving Brown-Forman as a thriving, family-controlled, independent company. The image on the left illustrates our core purpose, “Enriching Life,” and our highest ambition, “Nothing Better in the Market,” surrounded by the values that have guided us for decades: integrity, respect, trust, teamwork, and excellence. In addition to these guiding principles, our success is dependent on several strategic priorities, as illustrated in the image on the right: the quality of our brands within our portfolio, our geographic diversification, the caliber of our people, and the return on our investments. Moreover, taking an integrated approach means that many aspects of our company contribute to this value creation and are fundamental to our strategy, including our commitment to environmental sustainability; alcohol and marketing responsibility; diversity, equity and inclusion; and to building communities in which we live and work. As we celebrated our 150th anniversary, we faced many unforgettable challenges, including a global pandemic and heightened social and racial unrest. Our employees' unique mix of agility, resilience, energy, and compassion enabled us to succeed despite these challenges, and will continue to strengthen us over time. Our values drove decisions throughout this year, and our core purpose of “Enriching Life” and our highest ambition of “Nothing Better in the Market” continue to guide us as we move forward to a reimagined future with a renewed sense of opportunity for what lies ahead. The way we work has changed, and our business has been affected. We continue to prioritize the health, safety, and well-being of our employees and communities while we advance the growth of our brands and business. This Integrated Annual Report presents not only our financial performance but also our environmental, social, and governance strategies, commitments, and results. It provides a more holistic view of Brown-Forman, our culture, our strategic approach to our business, and how we achieve results. Portfolio and Responsibility We seek to build brands and create shareholder value responsibly by delivering strong and sustainable growth, solid margins, and high returns on invested capital. We focus on building brands that can be meaningful for our company and our consumers over the longer term. We aim to grow our premium spirits portfolio both organically and through innovation. Opportunistically and thoughtfully, we also consider acquisitions and partnerships that will enhance our capacity to deliver meaningful growth, improve margins, and increase shareholder returns. We strive to grow our brands and enhance consumers' experience with them. Even as we do so, we remain committed to marketing our brands responsibly and promoting responsible drinking. Regulation of our industry is not new, and external interest from the World Health Organization and other health bodies has grown over time. We uphold high standards of self-regulation by adhering to industry guidelines on responsible marketing and advertising. We work both independently and with industry organizations to promote alcohol responsibility, such as the International Alliance for Responsible Drinking, the Foundation for Advancing Alcohol Responsibility (responsibility.org) in the United States, The Portman Group in the United Kingdom, DrinkWise in Australia, and FISAC in Mexico. 10 The Jack Daniel's family of brands, led by Jack Daniel's Tennessee Whiskey (JDTW), is our most valuable asset – the engine of our overall financial performance and the foundation of our leadership position in the American whiskey category. 1 We strive to strengthen the brand's leadership, and will always work to keep JDTW relevant to consumers worldwide, while pursuing the opportunities to grow the Jack Daniel's family of brands across markets, premium-and-above price points, channels, and consumer groups. Product innovation continues to contribute meaningfully to our performance. Different Jack Daniel's expressions have brought new consumers to the franchise, including Honey (2011), Fire (2015), Rye (2017), and our most recent launch, Jack Daniel's Tennessee Apple (2019), which individually and collectively add great value to the company and to our consumers the world over. In addition to the leadership of our Jack Daniel's family of brands, we expect strong worldwide growth from our other whiskey brands, particularly Woodford Reserve and Old Forester. Woodford Reserve is the leading super-premium American whiskey globally 1, growing volumes at a strong double-digit compound annual growth rate since the brand was introduced 24 years ago, and is approaching 1.3 million nine-liter cases of annual volume as of April 30, 2021. We believe the brand is poised for continued growth as the bourbon category continues to grow around the world. Old Forester has continued its return to prominence in the United States and in select international markets through its unparalleled taste and quality. Innovation has played an important role in the premiumization of both of these brands, including the success of high-end expressions such as Woodford Double Oaked and the Old Forester Whiskey Row Series. Outside of our American whiskey brands, we believe our portfolio remains well positioned in other high-growth categories with meaningful premium brands and a focus on accelerating our super-premium portfolio. Our tequila portfolio is led by two brands steeped in Mexican heritage, Herradura and el Jimador. Despite the cyclical cost pressures resulting from the unprecedented cost of agave, we remain pleased with the growth of our tequila business in the United States and the long-term growth prospects of this business globally. We believe that our Scotch whiskies GlenDronach, Benriach, and Glenglassaugh, and our Irish whiskey Slane, are well-positioned in their respective categories. We expect them all to become meaningful contributors over the longer term. Lastly, we believe our acquisition in the summer of 2019, Fords Gin, provides access to the premium gin category, particularly in the United States, and we look to grow this brand in key gin markets globally. Fiscal 2021 was a year of significant growth for our RTD portfolio. Jack Daniel's RTDs sold over 12 million nine-liter cases globally, and in Mexico, our el Jimador tequila-based RTD, New Mix, crossed the 8 million nine-liter case milestone. In calendar 2020 we introduced Jack Daniel's Can Cocktails in the United States and also announced a new partnership with Pabst Brewing Company for the supply, sales, and distribution of Jack Daniel's Country Cocktails in this important market. In December 2020, we acquired Part Time Rangers, a line of low-calorie, spirit-based RTDs with natural fruit flavorings. Part Time Rangers is based in New Zealand, and we believe it will help us grow our RTD portfolio in that country, Australia, and potentially beyond. Part of building all of our brands and engaging our employees is through education, including resources and training on alcohol responsibility – what it means, how to be a good host/hostess, respecting the choice not to drink, preventing drunk/drink driving, and providing support for those in recovery. Pause, our internal campaign launched in the summer of 2019, seeks to elevate responsibility, raise awareness, and empower mindful choices from our employees. Through a partnership with Alteristic, we have taken an additional step to offer training to bartenders and employees on bystander intervention to help prevent sexual assault. Geography The United States remains our largest market, and continued growth there is important to our long-term success. We expect to foster this growth by emphasizing fast-growing spirits categories, continued product and packaging innovation, and brand building within growing consumer segments. This includes increasing emphasis on inclusive, digital, and integrated marketing and the growth of our e-commerce capabilities to better connect and engage with consumers where they are. Outside the United States, we continue to increase our competitiveness through improved routes to consumer. In May 2020, we established our owned-distribution organization in our fourth-largest market, the United Kingdom. In addition, we set up owned distribution in Thailand in 2020, and recently announced our plans to move Belgium and Taiwan to owned distribution in fiscal 2022 and Russia in fiscal 2023. More direct connection with customers and consumers enabled through owned distribution is an important part of our strategic growth. 11 The COVID-19 pandemic has impacted our global markets differently. While recovery will also be varied, we expect increasing contributions to our long-term future growth from emerging markets, including Brazil, China, India, Mexico, Poland, Russia, and Southeast Asia. People, Diversity & Inclusion, and Ethics & Compliance As we work to increase our brands' relevance and appeal to diverse consumer groups around the world, we believe a diversity of experiences and mindsets within our own workforce is essential. In the summer of 2019, we unveiled Many Spirits, One Brown-Forman: Gender and Race Edition, our 2030 Diversity & Inclusion Strategy aimed at creating a foundation from which to build a more diverse workforce and inclusive culture. In the summer of 2020, we developed and published commitments to be better and do better 1 – to live our value of respect, educate ourselves more fully on what it means to be anti-racist, identify and eliminate barriers to inclusion, create an environment where all employees can bring their best selves to work, and extend our commitment more deeply in our communities, especially our hometown of Louisville, Kentucky. We believe these actions will help us continue to build an equitable, inclusive culture at Brown-Forman. In recognition of our need to be better and do better as neighbors and as corporate citizens, the Brown-Forman Foundation focused more deeply on advancing educational opportunities in west Louisville. Support included donations to organizations focused on child development, college and career preparation, teacher education, technology training for students and parents, social services, and success coaching. Our vision is to create an environment where leveraging diversity and inclusion occurs naturally, giving us a sustainable marketplace advantage. We have set race and gender ambitions to have at least 50% women in professional- and leader-level roles globally, 40% women in senior leadership positions globally, and 25% people of color in our United States workforce by 2030. We have also set a goal to reach 16% of our supplier spend in locations such as the United States, the United Kingdom, and Australia, with businesses that are woman- or minority-owned by 2030. For more than a decade, we have earned a perfect score in the Corporate Equality Index 2, a national benchmarking survey and report on corporate policies and practices related to LGBTQ workplace equality administered by the Human Rights Campaign Foundation. One of the main drivers of an inclusive culture is the continued growth and leadership of our ten Employee Resource Groups (ERGs). We believe ERGs are instrumental in enriching our company's culture, and our employees experience this by supporting development and engagement of our diverse workforce, driving cultural awareness and competency across the organization, and enabling authentic engagement with our consumers. Our ERGs also create safe spaces for our employees and their allies to connect with, support, and advocate for one another. We know that this strong employee culture and our commitment to the communities where we live and work also helps foster a sense of engagement among our employees. During the COVID-19 pandemic, we conducted an employee survey to evaluate the company's response and better understand employee experiences navigating the challenging environment. The results highlighted our resilience and confirmed that together, we took many of the right steps in responding to this situation – communicating frequently and openly and supporting each other by caring and collaborating. This reaffirms that our values will always guide us along the right path, including the shift from crisis management into a new phase of recovery and reimagining the future. Our core values of integrity, respect, trust, teamwork, and excellence form the foundation of our ethics and compliance program. “Values Drive Decisions” is the key theme of this program and we use it to teach our employees to rely on our values when faced with a difficult decision and to “speak up” if they believe they, a colleague, or a business partner may have violated the law, our Code of Conduct, or company policy. We offer a third-party service, accessible from an external website, to employees and others who wish to “speak up” anonymously. We convey our compliance expectations to employees via our Code of Conduct, and all employees certify annually that they will comply with the Code of Conduct and report a potential violation. The Code of Conduct is a toolkit for employees, as it details expectations for 18 different risks, includes links to Q&A, policies, training and the ability to contact a subject-matter expert. Our Code of Conduct and certification is refreshed annually and translated into 12 languages. 1 Brown-Forman Be Better, Do Better at www.brown-forman.com/be_better_do_better 2 Human Rights Campaign 2021 Corporate Equality Index at www.hrc.org/cei 12 Investment and Sustainability One thing we have learned over more than a century and a half is that long-term success requires investment and a mindset of sustainability. We understand the need to invest in our brands, production facilities, homeplace and visitor centers, and aging inventory. For example, this past year, our Board of Directors approved a $125 million capital investment to expand our bourbon-making capacity in Kentucky to meet anticipated future consumer demand. We also understand the importance of investing in our people, communities, and the environment. We recognize that climate change is a business issue with risks and opportunities. As such, we are committed to actions that will ensure the long-term health of the planet and our business. In fiscal 2021, we established a new 2030 Sustainability Strategy that is intended to align our efforts with industry best practices and the most current climate science. Our new goals broaden our focus beyond business operations to include our supply chain, where the majority of our environmental footprint resides. With this new strategy, we have a roadmap for continued progress over the next quarter-century. Our recent investments in renewable energy and resource stewardship underscore our long-term focus: • Wind: Our wind power project, which became operational in April 2020, provides a renewable energy source that offsets more than 90% of our electricity usage in the United States. • Solar: Jack Daniel's recently announced a partnership to provide our Lynchburg distillery with 20 megawatts of solar energy. The agreement will provide nearly three-quarters of the distillery's electricity needs, and makes Jack Daniel's the first distillery to participate in Tennessee Valley Authority's Green Invest Program. • Watersheds: To manage water risk, we have completed watershed risk assessments to evaluate watersheds we operate in that are considered at-risk or business critical. Following the assessments, we have begun to develop multi-year mitigation plans to address risk. • Waste: In 2020, we were pleased to achieve our zero-waste-to-landfill (defined as sending less than 1% to landfill) goal across our production facilities. Our next priority is to integrate circular economy principles into our business that will allow us to go beyond zero-waste to a regenerative approach where resources are continually reused. We believe we are better positioned than ever to deliver exceptional high-quality products to our consumers around the world. We have a highly capable and engaged workforce. We have developed brand-building capabilities by equipping our teams with the training and tools necessary for an increasingly data-driven digital global marketplace. Among other trends, the expansion of the digital economy accelerated significantly as consumers, businesses, and communities adapted to the challenges brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic. To continue our success in how we market and sell our brands, we announced in fiscal 2021 an investment in a new Integrated Marketing Communications organization that we believe will further enhance our ability to win in the digital economy. Community In addition to the investments we make in our employees, we believe it is vital that we give back to the communities that support both our employees and our company by thoughtfully deploying our time, talent, and resources. We have been a proud corporate citizen of our hometown of Louisville, Kentucky, since we were founded. Being a good neighbor is something we strive for wherever we operate, and our expanded focus and commitment to the neighborhood around our corporate campus 13 meets this call to be the best neighbor we can be in an area that has experienced the effects of underinvestment and systemic racism. We also continue to expand our civic engagement into Brown-Forman global office locations, allowing those employees closest to the needs of their communities to decide how to invest their charitable-giving resources. We leverage our key community relations partners to stay informed of collaborative opportunities in the communities where we work and live, and to shape our charitable-giving strategy to meet the essential needs of the communities that sustain us. We provide charitable donations and our employees volunteer throughout our communities, including 115 serving on 201 nonprofit boards in the United States. The Brown-Forman Foundation (the Foundation) was created in fiscal 2018 with the goal of helping fund our ongoing philanthropic endeavors. The Foundation's earnings provide a consistent source of revenue for charitable giving independent of our annual earnings. We work to partner with organizations that support our key focus areas: empowering responsible and sustainable living, ensuring essential living standards, and enhancing arts and cultural living. In fiscal 2021, we committed to a $20 million investment in the Foundation, which will allow us to further support community-building in our hometown of Louisville, Kentucky. We believe that having a long-term-focused, committed, and engaged shareholder base, anchored by the Brown Family, gives us a distinct strategic advantage, particularly in a business with multi-generational brands and products that must be aged. We are committed to continually improving our environmental, social, and governance performance and acting upon our deeply held values. Recognizing the strong cash-generating capacity and the capital efficiency of our business, we will continue to pursue top-tier shareholder return through shareholder-friendly capital allocation and socially and environmentally conscious investments to fuel long-term growth. Human Capital Resources Overview: Culture of Care We put our values at the forefront of all our decisions and actions, ensuring our employees feel respected, safe, and supported so they can make, market, and sell our products with the finest craftsmanship, quality, and care. What enables our success are the 4,700 people (excluding individuals that work on a part-time or temporary basis) we employ in 43 countries around the world. This includes approximately 3,100 salaried employees and 1,600 hourly employees, with the largest percentage of our employees residing within the United States, Mexico, and the United Kingdom. We believe our employee relations are good and our turnover rate is low. COVID-19 Response Shortly after the global pandemic began, we shifted nearly all global salaried employees to a virtual working environment and safely maintained our essential production operations. In the first 90 days of this new way of working, we surveyed our salaried employees to ensure their virtual working conditions were enabling productivity and that they were receiving the appropriate amount of support during this challenging time. We also tracked the well-being of our essential workers, those who remained on-site to make, bottle, and ship our products. Site supervisors collected weekly qualitative data from their respective production teams from mid-March through June. This enabled production leaders to more quickly surface, address, monitor, and track any issues related to morale and the health and safety of our front-line employees. Additionally, as the effects of the pandemic lingered, we hosted numerous Mental Health Huddles, sessions designed to encourage our employees to attend to their mental well-being with the same intentionality as their physical health. We also invested in, and expanded access to, mental well-being resources globally. Our commitment to providing mental health resources will continue in our post-pandemic workplace. Diversity & Inclusion In the summer of 2019, we launched Many Spirits, One Brown-Forman: Gender and Race Edition, our 2030 Diversity and Inclusion Strategy. This strategy highlights the critical importance of a diverse, inclusive workforce and provides a framework for us to build initiatives and programs that will support our gender and race ambitions. In fiscal 2021, we added several new policies to support a diverse workforce, including changes to our global talent acquisition and executive compensation processes. For example, in the United States, we will strive to have more diverse interview slates. Additionally, in fiscal 2021, we introduced a new component in our short-term incentive compensation for our Executive Leadership Team whereby 10% of their short-term incentive compensation is based on progress towards achieving our diversity and inclusion priorities. We have set gender and race ambitions to have at least 50% women in professional- and leader-level roles globally, 40% women in senior leadership positions globally, and 25% people of color in our United States salaried workforce by 2030. 14 Learning & Development The professional growth and development of our people is critically important to our success. During fiscal 2021, most of our employees worked from home, limiting our ability to offer the in-person learning and development programs we relied on in the past. To meet the development needs of our workforce, we introduced a range of virtual learning options. This included a new virtual learning catalog with more than 3,000 titles covering a range of business topics and weekly offerings about our brands, business, and values. During the year, we launched “Getting Started @ B-F” as our new digital onboarding solution to guide new hires through the initial learning they need to succeed at Brown-Forman. This onboarding experience includes “Grain to Glass” – our virtual immersive orientation solution where employees learn more about our business strategy, portfolio, routes-to-market, and heritage. Over the last several years, we have developed extensive leadership training programs covering all levels of management, including executives. During fiscal 2021, we converted our key leadership training programs, including our Business Leader Program, People Leader Program, and Leader Transition Experience, to virtual learning, continuing the momentum we established before the pandemic. For our executives, we developed and launched a new program called the Inclusive Leadership Program, designed to inspire and equip leaders to support our commitment to build a more inclusive company and culture. This is a six-month blended learning program with a mix of e-learning, live virtual sessions, and small group discussions. Engagement & Enablement We regularly survey our employees regarding engagement and enablement. Our most recent survey, conducted in October 2019, indicated that our employees are highly engaged and enabled when compared to benchmark used by our third-party administrator. Throughout the year, we analyzed this data by functions, leaders, geographies, and demographics. We continually mine this survey, looking for opportunities for growth and improvement. In addition to this internal affirmation, we received numerous external workplace accolades in Brazil, France, Germany, India, Mexico, Spain, the United Kingdom, and the United States. 15 Executive Officers Information about Our Executive Officers The following persons served as executive officers as of June 21, 2021: Available Information Our website address is www.brown-forman.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to these reports are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file those reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The information provided on our website, and any other website referenced herein, is not part of this report, and is therefore not incorporated by reference into this report or any other filing we make with the SEC, unless that information is otherwise specifically incorporated by reference. On our website, we have posted our Code of Conduct that applies to all our directors and employees, and our Code of Ethics that applies specifically to our senior financial officers. If we amend or waive any of the provisions of our Code of 16 Conduct or our Code of Ethics applicable to our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, or principal accounting officer that relates to any element of the definition of “code of ethics” enumerated in Item 406(b) of Regulation S-K under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Act, as amended, we intend to disclose these actions on our website. We have also posted on our website our Corporate Governance Guidelines and the charters of our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, and Executive Committee of our Board of Directors. Copies of these materials are also available free of charge by writing to our Secretary at 850 Dixie Highway, Louisville, Kentucky 40210 or emailing Secretary@b-f.com. Item 1A.