 PART I Item 1. Business Overview Brown-Forman Corporation (the “Company,” “Brown-Forman,” “we,” “us,” or “our” below) was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1933, successor to a business founded in 1870 as a partnership and later incorporated under the laws of the Commonwealth of Kentucky in 1901. We primarily manufacture, distill, bottle, import, export, market, and sell a wide variety of alcoholic beverages under recognized brands. We employ approximately 4,800 people (excluding individuals that work on a part-time or temporary basis) on six continents, including approximately 1,200 people in Louisville, Kentucky, USA, home of our world headquarters. We are the largest American-owned spirits and wine company with global reach. We are a “controlled company” under New York Stock Exchange rules because the Brown family owns more than 50% of our voting stock. Taking into account ownership of shares of our non-voting stock, the Brown family also controls more than 50% of the economic ownership in Brown-Forman. For a discussion of recent developments, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Executive Summary.” 4 Brands Beginning in 1870 with Old Forester Kentucky Straight Bourbon Whisky – our founding brand – and spanning the generations since, we have built a portfolio of more than 40 spirit, ready-to-drink (RTD) cocktail, and wine brands that includes some of the best-known and most loved trademarks in our industry. The most important brand in our portfolio is Jack Daniel’s Tennessee Whiskey, which was ranked in the 2019 Interbrand “Best Global Brands” as the most valuable global spirits brand in the world and the third most valuable beverage alcohol brand. Jack Daniel’s Tennessee Whiskey is the largest American whiskey brand in the world and the fourth-largest premium spirits brand of any kind, according to Impact Databank’s “Top 100 Premium Spirits Brands Worldwide” list. Among the top five premium spirits brands on the list, Jack Daniel’s Tennessee Whiskey was the only one to grow volume in each of the past five calendar years. Our other leading global brands on the Worldwide Impact list are Finlandia, which is the tenth-largest-selling vodka; Jack Daniel’s Tennessee Honey, which is the second-largest-selling flavored whiskey; and el Jimador, which is the fifth-largest-selling tequila. Woodford Reserve and Old Forester were once again selected for the Impact “Hot Brand,” 1 list marking seven and two consecutive years on the list, respectively. Principal Brands Jack Daniel’s Tennessee Whiskey Korbel California Brandy 5 Jack Daniel’s RTDs 2 el Jimador Tequilas Jack Daniel’s Tennessee Honey el Jimador New Mix RTDs Gentleman Jack Rare Tennessee Whiskey Herradura Tequilas 6 Jack Daniel’s Tennessee Fire Sonoma-Cutrer California Wines Jack Daniel’s Single Barrel Collection 3 Canadian Mist Canadian Whisky 7 Jack Daniel’s Tennessee Rye GlenDronach Single Malt Scotch Whisky Jack Daniel’s Sinatra Select BenRiach Single Malt Scotch Whisky Jack Daniel’s No. 27 Gold Tennessee Whiskey Glenglassaugh Single Malt Scotch Whisky Jack Daniel’s Winter Jack Old Forester Kentucky Straight Bourbon Whisky Jack Daniel’s Bottled-in-Bond Old Forester Whiskey Row Series Jack Daniel’s Tennessee Apple 4 Old Forester Kentucky Straight Rye Whisky Woodford Reserve Kentucky Bourbon Chambord Liqueur Woodford Reserve Double Oaked Early Times Kentucky Whisky and Bourbon 7 Woodford Reserve Kentucky Rye Whiskey Pepe Lopez Tequila Woodford Reserve Kentucky Straight Malt Whiskey Antiguo Tequila Woodford Reserve Kentucky Straight Wheat Whiskey 4 Slane Irish Whiskey Finlandia Vodkas Coopers’ Craft Kentucky Bourbon Korbel California Champagnes 5 Fords Gin 8 1 Impact Databank, March 2020. 2 Jack Daniel’s RTDs includes Jack Daniel’s & Cola, Jack Daniel’s & Diet Cola, Jack & Ginger, Jack Daniel’s Country Cocktails, Gentleman Jack & Cola, Jack Daniel’s Double Jack, Jack Daniel’s American Serve, Jack Daniel’s Tennessee Honey RTD, Jack Daniel’s Berry, Jack Daniel’s Cider, and Jack Daniel’s Lynchburg Lemonade. 3 The Jack Daniel’s Single Barrel Collection includes Jack Daniel’s Single Barrel Select, Jack Daniel’s Single Barrel Barrel Proof, Jack Daniel’s Single Barrel Rye, and Jack Daniel’s Single Barrel 100 Proof. 4 New brands launched in fiscal 2020. 5 Korbel is not an owned brand. We sell Korbel products under contract in the United States and other select markets. 6 Herradura Tequilas comprise all expressions of Herradura including Herradura Ultra. 7 Entered into an agreement on June 12, 2020 to sell these brands to Sazerac Company 8 Acquired in fiscal 2020. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Results of Operations – Fiscal 2020 Brand Highlights” for brand performance details. Our vision in marketing is to be the best brand-builder in the industry. We build our brands by investing in platforms that we believe create enduring connections with our consumers. These platforms cover a wide spectrum of activities, including media advertising (TV, radio, print, outdoor, and, increasingly, digital and social), consumer and trade promotions, sponsorships, and visitors’ center programs at our distilleries and our winery. We expect to grow our sales and profits by consistently delivering creative, responsible marketing programs that drive brand recognition, brand trial, brand loyalty – and, ultimately, consumer demand around the world. 5 Markets We sell our products in over 170 countries around the world. The United States, our most important market, accounted for 50% of our net sales in fiscal 2020 and the other 50% were outside of the United States. The following represents the percentage of total net sales for our largest markets for the most recent three fiscal years below: For details about net sales in our largest markets, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Results of Operations – Fiscal 2020 Market Highlights.” For details about our reportable segment and for additional geographic information about net sales and long-lived assets, see Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” For details on risks related to our global operations, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” Distribution Network and Customers Our distribution network, or our “route to consumer” (RTC), varies depending on (a) the laws and regulatory framework for trade in beverage alcohol by market, (b) our assessment of a market’s long-term attractiveness and competitive dynamics, (c) the relative profitability of distribution options available to us, (d) the structure of the retail and wholesale trade in a market, and (e) our portfolio’s development stage in a market. As these factors change, we evaluate our RTC strategy and, from time to time, adapt our model. In the United States, which generally prohibits spirits and wine manufacturers from selling their products directly to consumers, we sell our brands either to distributors or to state governments (in states that directly control alcohol sales) that then sell to retail customers and consumers. Outside the United States, we use a variety of RTC models, which can be grouped into three categories: owned distribution, partner, and government-controlled markets. We own and operate distribution companies in Australia, Brazil, Czechia, France, Germany, Korea, Mexico, Poland, Spain, and Turkey. Effective May 1, 2020, we launched our own distribution companies in Thailand and the United Kingdom. In these owned-distribution markets, and in a large portion of the Travel Retail channel, we sell our products directly to retailers or wholesalers. In many other markets, including Russia, Japan, Italy, and South Africa, we rely on third parties to distribute our brands, generally under fixed-term distribution contracts. In Canada, we sell our products to provincial governments. We believe that our customer relationships are good and our exposure to concentrations of credit risk is limited due to the diverse geographic areas covered by our operations and our thorough evaluation of each customer. In 2020, our two largest customers were Republic National Distributing Company and Breakthru Beverage Group, which accounted for approximately 18% and 13% of consolidated net sales, respectively. Although the loss of any large customer for an extended period of time would negatively impact our net sales and operating income, we do not anticipate this happening due to consumer demand for our products and our relationships with our customers. Collectively, these two customers distribute our brands across most of the United States. No other customer accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated net sales in 2020. Seasonality Holiday buying makes the fourth calendar quarter the peak season for our business. Approximately 30% of our net sales for fiscal 2018, fiscal 2019, and fiscal 2020 were in the fourth calendar quarter of each year. 6 Competition Trade information indicates that we are one of the largest global suppliers of premium spirits. According to International Wine & Spirit Research (IWSR), for calendar year 2019, the ten largest global spirits companies controlled just over 20% of the total spirits sold around the world (on a volume basis). While we believe that the overall market environment offers considerable growth opportunities for us, our industry is, and will remain, highly competitive. We compete against many global, regional, and local brands in a variety of categories of beverage alcohol, but our brands compete primarily in the industry’s premium-and-higher price points. Our competitors include major global spirits and wine companies, such as Bacardi Limited, Becle S.A.B. de C.V., Beam Suntory Inc., Davide Campari-Milano S.p.A., Diageo PLC, LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton SE, Pernod Ricard SA, and Rémy Cointreau. In addition, particularly in the United States, we compete with national companies and craft spirit brands, many of which entered the market in the last few years. Brand recognition, brand provenance, quality of product and packaging, availability, flavor profile, and price affect consumers’ choices among competing brands in our industry. Other factors also influence consumers, including advertising, promotions, merchandising at the point of sale, expert or celebrity endorsement, social media and word of mouth, and the timing and relevance of new product introductions. Although some competitors have substantially greater resources than we do, we believe that our competitive position is strong, particularly as it relates to brand awareness, quality, availability, and relevance of new product introductions. Ingredients and Other Supplies The principal raw materials used in manufacturing and packaging our distilled spirits, liqueurs, RTD products, and wines are shown in the table below. Principal Raw Materials Distilled Spirits Liqueurs RTD Products Wines Packaging Agave Flavorings Flavorings Grapes Aluminum cans Barley Neutral spirits Malt Wood Cartons Corn Sugar Neutral spirits Closures Malted barley Water Sugar Glass bottles Rye Whiskey Tequila Labels Sugar Wine Water PET 1 bottles Water Whiskey Wood 1 Polyethylene terephthalate (PET) is a polymer used in non-glass containers. Currently, none of these raw materials are in short supply, but shortages could occur. From time to time, our agricultural ingredients (agave, barley, corn, grapes, malted barley, rye, and wood) could be adversely affected by weather and other forces out of our control that might constrain supply or reduce our inventory below desired levels for optimum production. Whiskeys, certain tequilas, and certain other distilled spirits must be aged. Because we must schedule production years in advance to meet projected future demand, our inventories of these products may be larger in relation to sales and total assets than in many other businesses. For details on risks related to the unavailability of raw materials and the inherent uncertainty in forecasting supply and demand, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” Intellectual Property Our intellectual property includes trademarks, copyrights, proprietary packaging and trade dress, proprietary manufacturing technologies, know-how, and patents. Our intellectual property, especially our trademarks, is essential to our business. We register our trademarks broadly around the world, focusing primarily on where we sell or expect to sell our products. We protect our intellectual property rights vigorously but fairly. We have licensed some of our trademarks to third parties for use with services or on products other than alcoholic beverages, which enhances the awareness and protection of our brands. For details on risks related to the protection of our intellectual property, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” For details on our most important brands, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Results of Operations – Fiscal 2020 Brand Highlights.” 7 Regulatory Environment Federal, state, local, and foreign authorities regulate how we produce, store, transport, distribute, market, and sell our products. Some countries and local jurisdictions prohibit or restrict the marketing or sale of distilled spirits in whole or in part. In the United States, at the federal level, the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau of the U.S. Department of the Treasury regulates the spirits and wine industry with respect to the production, blending, bottling, labeling, advertising, sales, and transportation of beverage alcohol. Similar regulatory regimes exist at the state level and in most non-U.S. jurisdictions where we sell our products. In addition, beverage alcohol products are subject to customs duties, excise taxes, or sales taxes in many countries, including taxation at the federal, state, and local level in the United States. Many countries set their own distilling and maturation requirements; for example, under U.S. federal and state regulations, bourbon and Tennessee whiskeys must be aged in new charred oak barrels; we typically age our whiskeys three to six years. Canadian whisky must be manufactured in Canada in compliance with Canadian laws. Mexican authorities regulate the production and bottling of tequilas; they mandate minimum aging periods for extra anejo (three years), anejo (one year), and reposado (two months). Irish whiskey must be matured at least three years in a wood cask, such as oak, on the island of Ireland. Scotch whisky must be matured in oak casks for at least three years in Scotland. We comply with all of the above laws and regulations. Our operations are subject to various environmental protection statutes and regulations, and our policy is to comply with them. 8 Integrated Strategy For 150 years, Brown-Forman and the Brown family have been committed to driving sustainable growth and preserving Brown-Forman as a thriving, family-controlled, independent company. The image on the left illustrates our purpose, “Enriching Life,” and our ambition, “Nothing Better in the Market,” surrounded by the values that have guided us for decades: integrity, respect, trust, teamwork, and excellence. In addition to these guiding principles, our success is dependent on our strategic priorities, as illustrated in the image on the right: the quality of our brands within our portfolio, our geographic diversification, the caliber of our people, and the investments we make to grow our business. Moreover, an integrated lens recognizes that many aspects of our company contribute to creating value for our shareholders over the long term, including our commitment to sustainability, responsibility, diversity and inclusion, and supporting and working to solve the health, education, and social inequities, particularly the racial divide, in the communities where we live and work. In the face of unprecedented business conditions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, it is important we look to our values and long-term strategy to guide us, while leveraging our agility to quickly adapt to changing business conditions. We have faced and overcome formidable challenges over the span of a century and a half: two world wars, United States Prohibition, the Great Depression, recessions, and now the COVID-19 pandemic. Navigating unpredictable economies, weather, market whims, and many more variables have simply been part of the long-term nature of our business. While the way we work has changed and our business has been affected, we continue to prioritize the health, safety, and well-being of our employees and communities and advance our brands and business despite these challenges. For the second consecutive year, we are integrating our Corporate Responsibility and Annual Reports not only to provide a more holistic view of Brown-Forman, but also to reflect who we are and our culture. Our integrated report combines our responsibility and sustainability information alongside financial data to provide a more comprehensive view of our business results. Portfolio We seek to build brands responsibly and create shareholder value by delivering strong and sustainable growth, solid margins, and high returns on invested capital. Given our expectation to continue to grow in size and scale, we are focusing on building brands that can be meaningful for our company and our consumers over the longer term. One of our priorities is to grow our premium spirits portfolio organically and through innovation. Opportunistically and thoughtfully, we also consider acquisitions and partnerships that will enhance our portfolio and our capacity to deliver meaningful growth, attractive margins, and acceptable returns. It is important to us that we pursue brand growth while actively promoting a positive drinking culture to enhance consumer experiences with our brands. We balance this work while holding steady to our commitment to market our products responsibly. Regulation of our industry is not new, and external pressure from the World Health Organization and other health bodies has grown over time. We uphold high standards of self-regulation by adhering to industry guidelines on responsible marketing and advertising. We work both independently and with industry organizations to promote alcohol responsibility, such as the 9 International Alliance for Responsible Drinking, the Foundation for Advancing Alcohol Responsibility (responsibility.org) in the United States, The Portman Group in the United Kingdom, DrinkWise in Australia, and FISAC in Mexico. The Jack Daniel’s family of brands, led by Jack Daniel’s Tennessee Whiskey (JDTW), is our most valuable asset – the engine of our overall financial performance and the foundation of our leadership position in the American whiskey category. 1 We strive to strengthen the brand’s leadership, and will always work to keep JDTW relevant to consumers worldwide, while pursuing the abundant opportunities to grow the Jack Daniel’s family of brands across markets, premium and above price points, channels, and consumer groups. Product innovation continues to contribute meaningfully to our performance. Different Jack Daniel’s expressions bring new consumers to the franchise, including Honey (2011), Fire (2015), Rye (2018), and our most recent launch, Jack Daniel’s Tennessee Apple (2020), which individually and collectively add great value to the Company and our consumers. In addition to the leadership of our Jack Daniel’s family of brands, we expect strong growth around the world from our other whiskey brands, particularly Woodford Reserve and Old Forester. Woodford Reserve is the leading super-premium American whiskey globally 1, surpassing one million nine-liter cases during fiscal 2020, and is poised for continued growth as interest in bourbon increases around the world. Old Forester has continued its return to prominence in the United States and in select international markets through its unparalleled taste and quality. Innovation has had a role in premiumizing both of these brands, including the success of high-end expressions, such as Woodford Double Oaked and the Old Forester Whiskey Row Series. Outside of our American whiskey brands, our portfolio is well positioned in other high-growth categories with meaningful premium brands and a focus on accelerating our super-premium portfolio. Our tequila portfolio is led by two brands steeped in Mexican heritage, Herradura and el Jimador. Despite cyclical cost pressures resulting from the unprecedented cost of agave, we remain pleased with the growth of our tequila business in Mexico and the United States over the past decade and the long-term growth prospects of this business globally. GlenDronach, BenRiach, Glenglassaugh, and Slane are well positioned in the categories of Scotch and Irish whiskey and are expected to become meaningful contributors over the longer term. Lastly, we believe our newest acquisition in the summer of 2019, Fords Gin, provides superior access to the fast-growing premium gin category, particularly in the United States, and we look to grow this brand in key gin markets globally. Part of building all of our brands and engaging our employees is through education, including resources and training on alcohol responsibility – what it means, how to be a good host/hostess, respecting the choice not to drink, preventing drunk/drink driving, and providing support for those in recovery. Our internal campaign, Pause, launched in the summer of 2019, seeks to elevate responsibility, raise awareness, and inspire more action from our employees. Our Chambord liqueur brand, through a partnership with the nonprofit group Alteristic, offers training to bartenders and employees on bystander intervention to help prevent sexual assault. Geography The United States remains our largest market, and its continued growth is important to our long-term success. We expect to foster this growth by emphasizing fast-growing spirits categories, continued product and packaging innovation, and brand building within growing consumer segments, including increasing emphasis on inclusive marketing. Outside the United States, we continue to increase our competitiveness through improved routes to consumer, with the most recent example being the establishment of our owned distribution organizations in the United Kingdom and Thailand in May 2020. The more direct connection with customers and consumers enabled through owned distribution in markets such as Australia, France, Germany, and now the United Kingdom and Thailand is an important part of our strategic growth. In addition, we expect increasing significant contributions to our long-term future growth from emerging markets including Brazil, China, India, Mexico, Poland, Russia, and Southeast Asia. People As we work to increase our brands’ relevance and appeal to diverse consumer groups around the world, we believe a diversity of experiences and mindsets within our own workforce is essential. In the summer of 2019, we unveiled Many Spirits, One Brown-Forman, our Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) 2030 Strategy aimed at creating a foundation from which to build a more diverse workforce and inclusive culture. Brown-Forman’s vision for D&I is to create an environment where leveraging diversity and inclusion occurs naturally, giving us a sustainable marketplace advantage. We have set gender and race ambitions to have at least 40 percent female senior leaders globally and 25 percent people of color in the United States by 2030. We anticipate expanding this work to other elements of diversity in the future. For the tenth year in a row, we earned a perfect score in the Corporate 10 Equality Index 1, a national benchmarking survey and report on corporate policies and practices related to LGBTQ workplace equality administered by the Human Rights Campaign Foundation. While we have had a long-standing commitment to cultivate a diverse and inclusive culture, we know we must be better and do better to bring about sustainable change for our Black colleagues and communities. Racism is a global problem, and there are no easy, quick, or simple solutions for the systemic challenges we face as a society. We are hopeful that recent times will be a catalyst for greater awareness, conversations, and positive actions, specifically those that explore how we live our value of respect, how we identify and eliminate bias in ourselves, and how we continue to create an inclusive environment and relationships that foster allyship. Our company leaders have re-committed to a renewed emphasis on allyship, encouraging discussions about race, allyship, and personal D&I journeys. We have publicly committed to specific actions and to making progress as individuals and a global organization, within our industry and local community, and through the influence of our brand and corporate voice 2. One of the main drivers of an inclusive culture is the continued growth and leadership of our Employee Resource Groups (ERGs), including our ninth and newest group, EAST (Embracing Asian Societies and Traditions), established in the summer of 2019. We believe ERGs are instrumental in enriching our company’s culture, and our employees experience this by supporting development and engagement of our diverse workforce, driving cultural awareness and competency across the organization, and enabling authentic engagement with our consumers. Our ERGs also create safe spaces for our employees of specific characteristics and their allies to connect with, support, and advocate for one another. We know that this strong employee culture and our commitment to the communities where we live and work also helps foster a sense of engagement among our employees. In fact, our Employee Engagement and Enablement survey results from the fall of 2019 reaffirmed what we have long known – our employees are highly engaged, highly enabled, and highly committed to our core values of integrity, respect, trust, teamwork, and excellence. In addition to this internal affirmation, we have received numerous external accolades, including being named a “Great Place to Work” in Brazil, France, Mexico, and Spain. Investment One thing we have learned over a century and a half is that long-term success requires investment and a mindset of sustainability. We understand the need to invest in our brands, production facilities, distillery homeplace and visitor centers, and aging inventory. We also understand the importance of investing in our people, communities, and the environment. We recognize that climate change is a business issue with risks and opportunities. As such, we are committed to actions that will ensure the long-term health of both the planet and our business. One example of our long-term focus is our investment in renewable energy. Our wind power project, which became operational in April 2020, provides a renewable energy source that we expect will offset more than 90% of our electricity usage in the United States. This will enable us to fully achieve our greenhouse gas target, established in 2013, of cutting our absolute greenhouse gas emissions by 15% by 2023, from a 2012 baseline. In order to manage water risk, we have completed Source Vulnerability Assessments to evaluate watersheds we operate in that are considered at-risk or business critical. Following the assessments, we have begun to develop programs to address the risk. We continue to make progress toward our goal of sending zero-waste to landfill for all of our owned facilities by the end of the 2020 calendar year. By the end the 2019 calendar year, we achieved zero-waste at 14 of our owned facilities. In total, Brown-Forman facilities divert 99.7% of waste from landfill. Although our largest facilities have achieved zero-waste and thus push our total to meet our goal, we are still working to improve some facilities that have not yet achieved zero-waste. Finally, recognizing the importance of demonstrating leadership at the executive level, we also appointed a Chief Sustainability Officer role, to engage with our Board of Directors as well as the Brown-Forman / Brown Family Shareholders Committee. We believe we are better positioned than ever to deliver exceptional products to our loyal consumers around the world. We have a highly capable and engaged workforce. We have developed brand-building capabilities by equipping our teams with the training and tools necessary to win in an increasingly data-driven digital global marketplace. In the fall of 2019, we announced that Energy BBDO would be our new global creative agency of record for the majority of our global brand portfolio, including the Jack Daniel’s family of brands, Woodford Reserve, Herradura, el Jimador, and Old Forester. This relationship is expected to bring new energy and perspective to the portfolio that we believe will enable us to make meaningful connections with consumers as we continue to build our brands. Community Relations In addition to the investments we make in our employees, we believe it is vital that we give back to the communities that support both our employees and our company by thoughtfully deploying our time, talent, and resources. We have been a proud 1 Human Rights Campaign 2020 Corporate Equality Index at www.hrc.org/cei 2 Brown-Forman Be Better, Do Better at www.brown-forman.com/be_better_do_better 11 corporate citizen of our hometown of Louisville, Kentucky for our entire 150 year history. Our expanded focus and commitment to the neighborhood around our corporate campus, while local, meets this call to be the best neighbor we can be, an ambition we strive for wherever we operate. We made a $2 million donation to the Republic Bank Foundation YMCA in west Louisville in fiscal 2019, which seeks to expand health and wellness resources to an underserved part of our community. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we donated nearly $2 million to relief efforts in the United States and other locations where we work. We also seek to expand our civic engagement into additional Brown-Forman global office locations, allowing those employees closest to the needs of their communities to decide how to invest their charitable-giving resources. We leverage our key community relations partners to stay informed of collaborative opportunities in the communities where we work and live, and to shape our charitable giving strategy to meet the essential needs of the communities that sustain us. We provide charitable donations and our employees volunteer throughout our communities, including 130 serving on nonprofit boards of directors. The Brown-Forman Foundation (the Foundation) was created in fiscal 2018 with the goal of helping fund our ongoing philanthropic endeavors. The Foundation’s earnings will provide a consistent source of revenue for charitable giving independent of our annual earnings. We work to partner with organizations that support our key focus areas: enhancing arts and cultural living, ensuring essential living standards, and empowering responsible and sustainable living. Having a long-term-focused, committed, and engaged shareholder base, anchored by the Brown family, gives us an important strategic advantage, particularly in a business with aged products and multi-generational brands committed to corporate responsibility and our deeply held values. Recognizing the strong cash-generating capacity and the capital efficiency of our business, we will continue to pursue top-tier shareholder return through shareholder-friendly capital allocation and socially and environmentally conscious investments to fuel long-term growth. 12 Employees and Executive Officers As of April 30, 2020, we employed approximately 4,800 people worldwide (approximately 2,600 in the United States), excluding individuals that work on a part-time or temporary basis. This includes approximately 14% of our U.S. employees that are represented by a union. We believe our employee relations are good. Information About Our Executive Officers The following persons served as executive officers as of June 19, 2020: Name Age Principal Occupation and Business Experience Lawson E. Whiting 51 President and Chief Executive Officer since 2019. Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer from October 2017 to December 2018. Executive Vice President and Chief Brands and Strategy Officer from 2015 to 2017. Senior Vice President and Chief Brands Officer from 2013 to 2015. Senior Vice President and Managing Director for Western Europe from 2011 to 2013. Vice President and Finance Director for Western Europe from 2010 to 2011. Vice President and Finance Director for North America from 2009 to 2010. Jane C. Morreau 61 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since 2014. Senior Vice President, Chief Production Officer, and Head of Information Technology from 2013 to 2014. Senior Vice President and Director of Financial Management, Accounting, and Technology from 2008 to 2013. Matthew E. Hamel 60 Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since 2007. Alejandro “Alex” Alvarez 52 Senior Vice President, Chief Production and Sustainability Officer since 2014. Vice President and General Manager for Brown-Forman Tequila Mexico Operations from 2008 to 2014. Matias Bentel 45 Senior Vice President and Chief Brands Officer since January 2020. Senior Vice President and Managing Director of Jack Daniel’s Family of Brands from August 2018 to January 2020. Vice President and General Manager of Mexico from January 2016 to August 2018. Vice President Latin America Marketing and Chief of Staff from October 2009 to January 2016. Kelli N. Brown 50 Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer since August 2018. Vice President and Director Finance (North America Region) from 2015 to August 2018. Director NAR Division Finance (North America Region) from 2013 to 2015. Director Business Planning and Analytics (North America Region) from 2012 to 2013. Ralph E. de Chabert 73 Senior Vice President, Chief Diversity Inclusion and Global Community Relations Officer since March 2019. Senior Vice President and Chief Diversity Officer from December 2007 to February 2019. Kirsten M. Hawley 50 Senior Vice President, Chief Human Resources and Corporate Communications Officer since March 2019. Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer from February 2015 to February 2019. Senior Vice President and Director of Human Resources Business Partnerships from 2013 to 2015. Vice President and Director of Organization and Leader Development from 2011 to 2013. Assistant Vice President and Director of Employee Engagement from 2009 to 2011. John V. Hayes 60 Senior Vice President, President, U.S.A. and Canada since June 2018. Senior Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer of Brown-Forman Brands from February 2015 to June 2018. Senior Vice President, Managing Director Jack Daniel’s from 2011 to 2015. Senior Vice President, Managing Director Herradura from 2007 to 2011. Thomas Hinrichs 58 Senior Vice President, President, International Division since June 2018. Senior Vice President and President for Europe, North Asia, and ANZSEA from February 2015 to June 2018. Senior Vice President and Managing Director for Europe from 2013 to 2015. Senior Vice President and Managing Director for Greater Europe and Africa from 2006 to 2013. Available Information Our website address is www.brown-forman.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to these reports are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file those reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The information provided on our website is not part of this report, and is therefore not incorporated by reference into this report or any other filing we make with the SEC, unless that information is otherwise specifically incorporated by reference. On our website, we have posted our Code of Conduct that applies to all our directors and employees, and our Code of Ethics that applies specifically to our senior financial officers. If we amend or waive any of the provisions of our Code of Conduct or our Code of Ethics applicable to our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, or principal accounting officer that relates to any element of the definition of “code of ethics” enumerated in Item 406(b) of Regulation S-K under the Securities Act of 1934 Act, as amended, we intend to disclose these actions on our website. We have also posted on our website our Corporate Governance Guidelines and the charters of our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, Corporate Governance and 13 Nominating Committee, and Executive Committee of our Board of Directors. Copies of these materials are also available free of charge by writing to our Secretary, 850 Dixie Highway, Louisville, Kentucky 40210 or emailing Secretary@b-f.com. Item 1A.