####### ITEM 1 ##########
 PART I ITEM 1 - Business COMPANY OVERVIEW We are a leading global manufacturer and marketer of branded consumer foods sold through retail stores. We also are a leading supplier of branded and unbranded food products to the North American foodservice and commercial baking industries. We are also a leading manufacturer and marketer in the wholesome natural pet food category. We manufacture our products in 13 countries and market them in more than 100 countries. In addition to our consolidated operations, we have 50 percent interests in two strategic joint ventures that manufacture and market food products sold in more than 120 countries worldwide. We manage and review the financial results of our business under five operating segments: North America Retail; Convenience Stores & Foodservice; Europe & Australia; Asia & Latin America; and Pet. See Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) in Item 7 of this report for a description of our segments. We offer a variety of food products that provide great taste, nutrition, convenience, and value for consumers around the world. Our business is focused on the following large, global categories:  snacks, including grain, fruit and savory snacks, nutrition bars, and frozen hot snacks;  ready-to-eat cereal;  convenient meals, including meal kits, ethnic meals, pizza, soup, side dish mixes, frozen breakfast, and frozen entrees;  yogurt;  wholesome natural pet food;  super-premium ice cream;  baking mixes and ingredients; and  refrigerated and frozen dough. Our Cereal Partners Worldwide (CPW) joint venture with Nestlé S.A. (Nestlé) competes in the ready-to-eat cereal category in markets outside North America, and our Häagen-Dazs Japan, Inc. (HDJ) joint venture competes in the super-premium ice cream category in Japan. For net sales contributed by each class of similar products, please see Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. The terms “General Mills,” “Company,” “registrant,” “we,” “us,” and “our” mean General Mills, Inc. and all subsidiaries included in the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report unless the context indicates otherwise. Certain terms used throughout this report are defined in a glossary in Item 8 of this report. Customers Our primary customers are grocery stores, mass merchandisers, membership stores, natural food chains, drug, dollar and discount chains, e-commerce retailers, commercial and noncommercial foodservice distributors and operators, restaurants, convenience stores, and pet specialty stores. We generally sell to these customers through our direct sales force. We use broker and distribution arrangements for certain products and to serve certain types of customers and certain markets. For further information on our customer credit and product return practices, please refer to Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. During fiscal 2021, Walmart Inc. and its affiliates (Walmart) accounted for 20 percent of our consolidated net sales and 29 percent of net sales of our North America Retail segment. No other customer accounted for 10 percent or more of our consolidated net sales. For further information on significant customers, please refer to Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. Competition The packaged and pet food categories are highly competitive, with numerous manufacturers of varying sizes in the United States and throughout the world. The categories in which we participate also are very competitive. Our principal competitors in these categories are manufacturers, as well as retailers with their own branded products. Competitors market and sell their products through brick-and-mortar stores and e-commerce. All of our principal competitors have substantial financial, marketing, and other resources. Competition in our product categories is based on product innovation, product quality, price, brand recognition and loyalty, effectiveness of marketing, promotional activity, convenient ordering and delivery to the consumer, and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. Our principal strategies for competing in each of our segments include unique consumer insights, effective customer relationships, superior product quality, innovative advertising, product promotion, product innovation aligned with consumers’ needs, an efficient supply chain, and price. In most product categories, we compete not only with other widely advertised, branded products, but also with regional brands and with generic and private label products that are generally sold at lower prices. Internationally, we compete with both multi-national and local manufacturers, and each country includes a unique group of competitors. 4 Raw materials, ingredients, and packaging The principal raw materials that we use are grains (wheat, oats, and corn), dairy products, sugar, fruits, vegetable oils, meats, nuts, vegetables, and other agricultural products. We also use substantial quantities of carton board, corrugated, plastic and metal packaging materials, operating supplies, and energy. Most of these inputs for our domestic and Canadian operations are purchased from suppliers in the United States. In our other international operations, inputs that are not locally available in adequate supply may be imported from other countries. The cost of these inputs may fluctuate widely due to external conditions such as weather, climate change, product scarcity, limited sources of supply, commodity market fluctuations, currency fluctuations, trade tariffs, pandemics (including the COVID-19 pandemic), and changes in governmental agricultural and energy policies and regulations. We have some long-term fixed price contracts, but the majority of our inputs are purchased on the open market. We believe that we will be able to obtain an adequate supply of needed inputs. Occasionally and where possible, we make advance purchases of items significant to our business in order to ensure continuity of operations. Our objective is to procure materials meeting both our quality standards and our production needs at price levels that allow a targeted profit margin. Since these inputs generally represent the largest variable cost in manufacturing our products, to the extent possible, we often manage the risk associated with adverse price movements for some inputs using a variety of risk management strategies. We also have a grain merchandising operation that provides us efficient access to, and more informed knowledge of, various commodity markets, principally wheat and oats. This operation holds physical inventories that are carried at net realizable value and uses derivatives to manage its net inventory position and minimize its market exposures. TRADEMARKS AND PATENTS Our products are marketed under a variety of valuable trademarks. Some of the more important trademarks used in our global operations (set forth in italics in this report) include Annie’s, Betty Crocker, Bisquick, Blue Buffalo, Blue Basics, Blue Freedom, Bugles, Cascadian Farm, Cheerios, Chex, Cinnamon Toast Crunch, Cocoa Puffs, Cookie Crisp, EPIC, Fiber One, Food Should Taste Good, Fruit by the Foot, Fruit Gushers, Fruit Roll-Ups, Gardetto's, Go-Gurt, Gold Medal, Golden Grahams, Häagen-Dazs, Helpers, Jus-Rol, Kitano, Kix, Lärabar, Latina, Liberté, Lucky Charms, Muir Glen, Nature Valley, Oatmeal Crisp, Old El Paso, Oui, Pillsbury, Progresso, Raisin Nut Bran, Total, Totino’s, Trix, Wanchai Ferry, Wheaties, Wilderness, Yoki, and Yoplait. We protect these marks as appropriate through registrations in the United States and other jurisdictions. Depending on the jurisdiction, trademarks are generally valid as long as they are in use or their registrations are properly maintained and they have not been found to have become generic. Registrations of trademarks can also generally be renewed indefinitely for as long as the trademarks are in use. Some of our products are marketed under or in combination with trademarks that have been licensed from others for both long-standing products (e.g., Reese’s Puffs for cereal, Green Giant for vegetables in certain countries, and Cinnabon for refrigerated dough, frozen pastries, and baking products) and shorter term promotional products (e.g., fruit snacks sold under various third party equities). Our cereal trademarks are licensed to CPW and may be used in association with the Nestlé trademark. Nestlé licenses certain of its trademarks to CPW, including the Nestlé and Uncle Toby’s trademarks. The Häagen-Dazs trademark is licensed royalty-free and exclusively to Nestlé and authorized sublicensees for ice cream and other frozen dessert products in the United States and Canada. The Häagen-Dazs trademark is also licensed to HDJ in Japan. The Pillsbury brand and the Pillsbury Doughboy character are subject to an exclusive, royalty-free license that was granted to a third party and its successors in the dessert mix and baking mix categories in the United States and under limited circumstances in Canada and Mexico. The Yoplait trademark and other related trademarks are owned by Yoplait Marques SNC, an entity in which we own a 50 percent interest. The Liberté trademark and other related trademarks are owned by Liberté Marques Sárl, an entity in which we own a 50 percent interest. These marks are licensed exclusively to Yoplait SAS, an entity in which we own a 51 percent interest. Yoplait SAS licenses these trademarks to its franchisees, including General Mills in the United States. We continue our focus on developing and marketing innovative, proprietary products, many of which use proprietary expertise, recipes and formulations. We consider the collective rights under our various patents, which expire from time to time, a valuable asset, but we do not believe that our businesses are materially dependent upon any single patent or group of related patents. SEASONALITY In general, demand for our products is evenly balanced throughout the year. However, within our North America Retail segment demand for refrigerated dough, frozen baked goods, and baking products is stronger in the fourth calendar quarter. Demand for Progresso soup is higher during the fall and winter months. Internationally, within our Europe & Australia and Asia & Latin America segments, demand for Häagen-Dazs ice cream is higher during the summer months and demand for baking mix and dough products increases during winter months. Due to the offsetting impact of these demand trends, as well as the different seasons in the northern and southern hemispheres, our international segments’ net sales are generally evenly balanced throughout the year. 5 QUALITY AND SAFETY REGULATION The manufacture and sale of consumer and pet food products is highly regulated. In the United States, our activities are subject to regulation by various federal government agencies, including the Food and Drug Administration, Department of Agriculture, Federal Trade Commission, Department of Commerce, Occupational Safety and Health Administration, and Environmental Protection Agency, as well as various federal, state, and local agencies relating to the production, packaging, labelling, marketing, storage, distribution, quality, and safety of food and pet products and the health and safety of our employees. Our business is also regulated by similar agencies outside of the United States. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS As of May 30, 2021, we were involved with two response actions associated with the alleged or threatened release of hazardous substances or wastes located in Minneapolis, Minnesota and Moonachie, New Jersey. Our operations are subject to the Clean Air Act, Clean Water Act, Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, and the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, and all similar state, local, and foreign environmental laws and regulations applicable to the jurisdictions in which we operate. Based on current facts and circumstances, we believe that neither the results of our environmental proceedings nor our compliance in general with environmental laws or regulations will have a material adverse effect upon our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position. HUMAN CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Recruiting, developing, engaging, and protecting our workforce is critical to executing our strategy and achieving business success. As of May 30, 2021, we had approximately 35,000 employees around the globe, with approximately 15,000 in the U.S. and approximately 20,000 located in our markets outside of the U.S. Our workforce is divided between approximately 13,000 employees dedicated to the production of our various products and approximately 22,000 non-production employees. The efficient production of high-quality products and successful execution of our strategy requires a talented, skilled, and engaged team of employees. We work to equip our employees with critical skills and expand their contributions over time by providing a range of training and career development opportunities, including hands-on experiences via challenging work assignments and job rotations, coaching and mentoring opportunities, and training programs. To foster employee engagement and commitment, we follow a robust process to listen to employees, take action, and measure our progress with on-going employee conversations, transparent communications, and employee engagement surveys. We believe that fostering a culture of inclusion and belonging strengthens our ability to recruit talent and allows all of our employees to thrive and succeed. We actively cultivate a culture that acknowledges, respects, and values all dimensions of diversity – including gender, race, sexual orientation, ability, backgrounds, and beliefs. Ensuring diversity of input and perspectives is core to our business strategy, and we are committed to recruiting, retaining, developing, and advancing a workforce that reflects the diversity of the consumers we serve. This commitment starts with our company leadership where women represent approximately 41 percent of our officer and director population, and approximately 19 percent of our officers and directors are racially or ethnically diverse. We embed our culture of inclusion and belonging into our day-to-day ways of working through a number of programs to foster discussion, build empathy, and increase understanding. We are committed to maintaining a safe and secure workplace for our employees. We set specific safety standards to identify and manage critical risks. We use global safety management systems and employee training to ensure consistent implementation of safety protocols and accurate measurement and tracking of incidents. To provide a safe and secure working environment for our employees, we prohibit workplace discrimination, and we do not tolerate abusive conduct or harassment. Our attention to the health and safety of our workforce extends to the workers and communities in our supply chain. We believe that respect for human rights is fundamental to our strategy and to our commitment to ethical business conduct. During the COVID-19 pandemic, we implemented an enterprise-wide response to ensure employee safety. In our manufacturing facilities, we enacted social distancing protocols, temperature checks, enhanced sanitation, mask use, and other protective equipment and practices. Our layered protections, combined with robust contact tracing and exclusion protocols, enabled the continued operation of our manufacturing and distribution facilities without significant disruption. During the pandemic, our office staff shifted primarily to working remotely as dictated by local conditions. 6 INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS The section below provides information regarding our executive officers as of July 1, 2021. Richard C. Allendorf, age 60, is General Counsel and Secretary. Mr. Allendorf joined General Mills in 2001 from The Pillsbury Company. He was promoted to Vice President, Deputy General Counsel in 2010, first overseeing the legal affairs of the U.S. Retail segment and Consumer Food Sales and then, in 2012, overseeing the legal affairs of the International segment and Global Ethics and Compliance. He was named to his present position in February 2015. Prior to joining General Mills, he practiced law with the Shearman and Sterling and Mackall, Crounse and Moore law firms. He was in finance with General Electric prior to his legal career. Jodi Benson, age 56, is Chief Innovation, Technology and Quality Officer. Ms. Benson joined General Mills in 2001 from The Pillsbury Company. She held a variety of positions before becoming the leader of our One Global Dairy Platform from 2011 to March 2016. She was named Vice President for our International business segment from April 2016 to March 2017, and Vice President of the Global Innovation, Technology, and Quality Capabilities Group from April 2017 to July 2018. She was named to her current position in August 2018. Kofi A. Bruce, age 51, is Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Bruce joined General Mills in 2009 as Vice President, Treasurer after serving in a variety of senior management positions with Ecolab and Ford Motor Company. He served as Treasurer until 2010 when he was named Vice President, Finance for Yoplait. Mr. Bruce reassumed his role as Vice President, Treasurer from 2012 until 2014 when he was named Vice President, Finance for Convenience Stores & Foodservice. He was named Vice President, Controller in August 2017, Vice President, Financial Operations in September 2019, and to his present position in February 2020. John R. Church, age 55, is Chief Transformation & Enterprise Services Officer. Mr. Church joined General Mills in 1988 as a Product Developer in the Big G cereals division and held various positions before becoming Vice President, Engineering in 2003. In 2005, his role was expanded to include development of the Company’s strategy for the global sourcing of raw materials and manufacturing capabilities. He was named Vice President, Supply Chain Operations in 2007, Senior Vice President, Supply Chain in 2008, Executive Vice President, Supply Chain in 2013, Chief Supply Chain and Global Business Solutions Officer in June 2017, and to his present position in July 2021. Paul J. Gallagher, age 53, is Chief Supply Chain Officer. Mr. Gallagher joined General Mills in April 2019 as Vice President, North America Supply Chain from Diageo plc. He began his career at Diageo where he spent 25 years serving in a variety of leadership roles in manufacturing, procurement, planning, customer service, and engineering before becoming President, North America Supply from 2013 to March 2019. He was named to his current position in July 2021. Jeffrey L. Harmening, age 54, is Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Harmening joined General Mills in 1994 and served in various marketing roles in the Betty Crocker, Yoplait, and Big G cereal divisions. He was named Vice President, Marketing for CPW in 2003 and Vice President of the Big G cereal division in 2007. In 2011, he was promoted to Senior Vice President for the Big G cereal division. Mr. Harmening was appointed Senior Vice President, Chief Executive Officer of CPW in 2012. Mr. Harmening returned from CPW in 2014 and was named Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, U.S. Retail. He became President, Chief Operating Officer in July 2016. He was named Chief Executive Officer in June 2017 and Chairman of the Board in January 2018. Mr. Harmening is a director of The Toro Company. Dana M. McNabb, age 45, is Chief Strategy & Growth Officer. Ms. McNabb joined General Mills in 1999 and held a variety of marketing roles in Cereal, Snacks, Meals, and New Products before becoming Vice President, Marketing for CPW in 2011 and Vice President, Marketing for the Circle of Champions Business Unit in 2015. She became President, U.S. Cereal Operating Unit in December 2016, Group President, Europe & Australia in January 2020, and was named to her present position in July 2021. Jaime Montemayor, age 57, is Chief Digital and Technology Officer. He spent 21 years at PepsiCo, Inc., serving in roles of increasing responsibility, including most recently as Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer of PepsiCo’s Americas Foods segment from 2013 to 2015, and Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer, Digital Innovation, Data and Analytics, PepsiCo from 2015 to 2016. Mr. Montemayor served as Chief Technology Officer of 7-Eleven Inc. from April 2017 until October 2017. He assumed his current role in February 2020 after founding and operating a digital technology consulting company from November 2017 until January 2020. Jon J. Nudi, age 51, is Group President, North America Retail. Mr. Nudi joined General Mills in 1993 as a Sales Representative and held a variety of roles in Consumer Foods Sales. In 2005, he moved into marketing roles in the Meals division and was elected Vice President in 2007. Mr. Nudi was named Vice President; President, Snacks, in 2010, Senior Vice President, President, Europe/Australasia in 2014, and Senior Vice President; President, U.S. Retail in September 2016. He was named to his present position in January 2017. 7 Shawn P. O’Grady, age 57, is Group President, Convenience Stores & Foodservice. Mr. O’Grady joined General Mills in 1990 and held several marketing roles in the Snacks, Meals, and Big G cereal divisions. He was promoted to Vice President in 1998 and held marketing positions in the Betty Crocker and Pillsbury USA divisions. In 2004, he moved into Consumer Foods Sales, becoming Vice President, President, U.S. Retail Sales in 2007, Senior Vice President, President, Consumer Foods Sales Division in 2010, and Senior Vice President, President, Sales & Channel Development in 2012. He was named to his current position in January 2017. Mark A. Pallot, age 48, is Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer. Mr. Pallot joined General Mills in 2007 and served as Director, Financial Reporting until August 2017, when he was named Vice President, Assistant Controller. He was elected to his present position in February 2020. Prior to joining General Mills, Mr. Pallot held accounting and financial reporting positions at Residential Capital, LLC, Metris, Inc., CIT Group Inc., and Ernst & Young, LLP. Bethany Quam, age 50, is Group President, Pet. Ms. Quam joined General Mills in 1993 and held a variety of positions before becoming Vice President, Strategic Planning in 2007. She was promoted to Vice President, Field Sales, Channels in 2012, Vice President; President, Convenience Stores & Foodservice in 2014, and Senior Vice President; President, Europe & Australia in August 2016, and Group President; Europe & Australia in January 2017. She was named to her current position in October 2019. Sean Walker, age 55, is Group President, Asia & Latin America and Europe & Australia. Mr. Walker joined General Mills in 1989 and held a variety of positions before becoming Vice President, President of Latin America in 2009. He was named Senior Vice President, President Latin America in 2012, Senior Vice President, Corporate Strategy in September 2016, and Group President, Asia & Latin America in February 2019. He was named to his current position in July 2021. Jacqueline Williams-Roll, age 52, is Chief Human Resources Officer. Ms. Williams-Roll joined General Mills in 1995. She held human resources leadership roles in Supply Chain, Finance, Marketing, and Organization Effectiveness, and she also worked a large part of her career on businesses outside of the United States. She was named Vice President, Human Resources, International in 2010, and then promoted to Senior Vice President, Human Resources Operations in 2013. She was named to her present position in September 2014. Prior to joining General Mills, she held sales and management roles with Jenny Craig International. WEBSITE ACCESS Our website is https://www.generalmills.com. We make available, free of charge in the “Investors” portion of this website, annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (1934 Act) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). All such filings are available on the SEC’s website at https://www.sec.gov. Reports of beneficial ownership filed pursuant to Section 16(a) of the 1934 Act are also available on our website.

 ####### ITEM 1A ##########
ITEM 1A - Risk Factors Our business is subject to various risks and uncertainties. Any of the risks described below could materially, adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Business and Industry Risks Global health developments and economic uncertainty resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The public health crisis caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and the measures being taken by governments, businesses, including us, and the public at large to limit COVID-19’s spread have had, and we expect will continue to have, certain negative impacts on our business, financial condition, and results of operations including, without limitation, the following:  We have experienced, and may continue to experience, a decrease in sales of certain of our products in markets around the world that have been affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. In particular, sales of our products in the away-from-home food outlets across all our major markets have been negatively affected by reduced consumer traffic resulting from shelter-in-place regulations or recommendations and closings of restaurants, schools and cafeterias. If the COVID-19 pandemic persists or intensifies, its negative impacts on our sales, particularly in away-from-home food outlets, could be more prolonged and may become more severe.  Deteriorating economic and political conditions in our major markets affected by the COVID-19 pandemic, such as increased unemployment, decreases in disposable income, declines in consumer confidence, or economic slowdowns or recessions, could cause a decrease in demand for our products.  We have experienced minor temporary workforce disruptions in our supply chain as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. We have implemented employee safety measures, based on guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and World Health Organization, across all our supply chain facilities, including proper hygiene, social distancing, mask use, and temperature screenings. These measures may not be sufficient to prevent the spread of COVID-19 among our employees. Illness, travel restrictions, absenteeism, or other workforce disruptions could negatively affect our supply chain, manufacturing, distribution, or other business processes. We may face additional production disruptions in the future, which may place constraints on our ability to produce products in a timely manner or may increase our costs.  Changes and volatility in consumer purchasing and consumption patterns may increase demand for our products in one quarter, resulting in decreased consumer demand for our products in subsequent quarters. Short term or sustained increases in consumer demand at our retail customers may exceed our production capacity or otherwise strain our supply chain.  The failure of third parties on which we rely, including those third parties who supply our ingredients, packaging, capital equipment and other necessary operating materials, contract manufacturers, commercial transport, distributors, contractors, commercial banks, and external business partners, to meet their obligations to us, or significant disruptions in their ability to do so, may negatively impact our operations.  Significant changes in the political conditions in markets in which we manufacture, sell, or distribute our products (including quarantines, import/export restrictions, price controls, governmental or regulatory actions, closures or other restrictions that limit or close our operating and manufacturing facilities, restrict our employees’ ability to travel or perform necessary business functions, or otherwise prevent our third-party partners, suppliers, or customers from sufficiently staffing operations, including operations necessary for the production, distribution, and sale of our products) could adversely impact our operations and results.  Actions we have taken or may take, or decisions we have made or may make, as a consequence of the COVID-19 pandemic may result in investigations, legal claims or litigation against us. The categories in which we participate are very competitive, and if we are not able to compete effectively, our results of operations could be adversely affected. The consumer and pet food categories in which we participate are very competitive. Our principal competitors in these categories are manufacturers, as well as retailers with their own branded and private label products. Competitors market and sell their products through brick-and-mortar stores and e-commerce. All of our principal competitors have substantial financial, marketing, and other resources. In most product categories, we compete not only with other widely advertised branded products, but also with regional brands and with generic and private label products that are generally sold at lower prices. Competition in our product categories is based on product innovation, product quality, price, brand recognition and loyalty, effectiveness of marketing, promotional activity, convenient ordering and delivery to the consumer, and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. If our large competitors were to seek an advantage through pricing or promotional changes, we could choose to do the same, which could adversely affect our margins and profitability. If we did not do the same, our revenues and market share could be adversely affected. Our market share and revenue growth could also be adversely impacted if we are not successful in introducing innovative products in response to changing consumer demands or by new product introductions of our competitors. If we are unable to build and sustain 9 brand equity by offering recognizably superior product quality, we may be unable to maintain premium pricing over generic and private label products. We may be unable to maintain our profit margins in the face of a consolidating retail environment. There has been significant consolidation in the grocery industry, resulting in customers with increased purchasing power. In addition, large retail customers may seek to use their position to improve their profitability through improved efficiency, lower pricing, increased reliance on their own brand name products, increased emphasis on generic and other economy brands, and increased promotional programs. If we are unable to use our scale, marketing expertise, product innovation, knowledge of consumers’ needs, and category leadership positions to respond to these demands, our profitability and volume growth could be negatively impacted. In addition, the loss of any large customer could adversely affect our sales and profits. In fiscal 2021, Walmart accounted for 20 percent of our consolidated net sales and 29 percent of net sales of our North America Retail segment. For more information on significant customers, please see Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. Price changes for the commodities we depend on for raw materials, packaging, and energy may adversely affect our profitability. The principal raw materials that we use are commodities that experience price volatility caused by external conditions such as weather, climate change, product scarcity, limited sources of supply, commodity market fluctuations, currency fluctuations, trade tariffs, pandemics (such as the COVID-19 pandemic), and changes in governmental agricultural and energy policies and regulations. Commodity prices have become, and may continue to be, more volatile during the COVID-19 pandemic. Commodity price changes may result in unexpected increases in raw material, packaging, energy, and transportation costs. If we are unable to increase productivity to offset these increased costs or increase our prices, we may experience reduced margins and profitability. We do not fully hedge against changes in commodity prices, and the risk management procedures that we do use may not always work as we intend. Concerns with the safety and quality of our products could cause consumers to avoid certain products or ingredients. We could be adversely affected if consumers in our principal markets lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain of our products or ingredients. Adverse publicity about these types of concerns, whether or not valid, may discourage consumers from buying our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. We may be unable to anticipate changes in consumer preferences and trends, which may result in decreased demand for our products. Our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate the tastes, eating habits, and purchasing behaviors of consumers and to offer products that appeal to their preferences in channels where they shop. Consumer preferences and category-level consumption may change from time to time and can be affected by a number of different trends and other factors. If we fail to anticipate, identify or react to these changes and trends, such as adapting to emerging e-commerce channels, or to introduce new and improved products on a timely basis, we may experience reduced demand for our products, which would in turn cause our revenues and profitability to suffer. Similarly, demand for our products could be affected by consumer concerns regarding the health effects of ingredients such as sodium, trans fats, genetically modified organisms, sugar, processed wheat, grain-free or legume-rich pet food, or other product ingredients or attributes. We may be unable to grow our market share or add products that are in faster growing and more profitable categories. The food industry’s growth potential is constrained by population growth. Our success depends in part on our ability to grow our business faster than populations are growing in the markets that we serve. One way to achieve that growth is to enhance our portfolio by adding innovative new products in faster growing and more profitable categories. Our future results will also depend on our ability to increase market share in our existing product categories. If we do not succeed in developing innovative products for new and existing categories, our growth and profitability could be adversely affected. Our results may be negatively impacted if consumers do not maintain their favorable perception of our brands. Maintaining and continually enhancing the value of our many iconic brands is critical to the success of our business. The value of our brands is based in large part on the degree to which consumers react and respond positively to these brands. Brand value could diminish significantly due to a number of factors, including consumer perception that we have acted in an irresponsible manner, adverse publicity about our products, our failure to maintain the quality of our products, the failure of our products to deliver consistently positive consumer experiences, concerns about food safety, or our products becoming unavailable to consumers. Consumer demand for our products may also be impacted by changes in the level of advertising or promotional support. The use of social and digital media by consumers, us, and third parties increases the speed and extent that information or misinformation and 10 opinions can be shared. Negative posts or comments about us, our brands, or our products on social or digital media could seriously damage our brands and reputation. If we do not maintain the favorable perception of our brands, our business results could be negatively impacted. Operating Risks If we are not efficient in our production, our profitability could suffer as a result of the highly competitive environment in which we operate. Our future success and earnings growth depend in part on our ability to be efficient in the production and manufacture of our products in highly competitive markets. Gaining additional efficiencies may become more difficult over time. Our failure to reduce costs through productivity gains or by eliminating redundant costs resulting from acquisitions or divestitures could adversely affect our profitability and weaken our competitive position. Many productivity initiatives involve complex reorganization of manufacturing facilities and production lines. Such manufacturing realignment may result in the interruption of production, which may negatively impact product volume and margins. We periodically engage in restructuring and cost savings initiatives designed to increase our efficiency and reduce expenses. If we are unable to execute those initiatives as planned, we may not realize all or any of the anticipated benefits, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Disruption of our supply chain could adversely affect our business. Our ability to make, move, and sell products is critical to our success. Damage or disruption to raw material supplies or our manufacturing or distribution capabilities due to weather, climate change, natural disaster, fire, terrorism, cyber-attack, pandemics (such as the COVID-19 pandemic), governmental restrictions or mandates, strikes, import/export restrictions, or other factors could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. Many of our product lines are manufactured at a single location or sourced from a single supplier. The failure of third parties on which we rely, including those third parties who supply our ingredients, packaging, capital equipment and other necessary operating materials, contract manufacturers, commercial transport, distributors, contractors, and external business partners, to meet their obligations to us, or significant disruptions in their ability to do so, may negatively impact our operations. Our suppliers’ policies and practices can damage our reputation and the quality and safety of our products. Disputes with significant suppliers, including disputes regarding pricing or performance, could adversely affect our ability to supply products to our customers and could materially and adversely affect our sales, financial condition, and results of operations. Failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, particularly when a product is sourced from a single location or supplier, could adversely affect our business and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain. Short term or sustained increases in consumer demand at our retail customers may exceed our production capacity or otherwise strain our supply chain. Our failure to meet the demand for our products could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our international operations are subject to political and economic risks. In fiscal 2021, 26 percent of our consolidated net sales were generated outside of the United States. We are accordingly subject to a number of risks relating to doing business internationally, any of which could significantly harm our business. These risks include:  political and economic instability;  exchange controls and currency exchange rates;  tariffs on products and ingredients that we import and export;  nationalization or government control of operations;  compliance with anti-corruption regulations;  uncertainty relating to the impact of the United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union;  foreign tax treaties and policies; and  restriction on the transfer of funds to and from foreign countries, including potentially negative tax consequences. Our financial performance on a U.S. dollar denominated basis is subject to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. These fluctuations could cause material variations in our results of operations. Our principal exposures are to the Australian dollar, Brazilian real, British pound sterling, Canadian dollar, Chinese renminbi, euro, Japanese yen, Mexican peso, and Swiss franc. From time to time, we enter into agreements that are intended to reduce the effects of our exposure to currency fluctuations, but these agreements may not be effective in significantly reducing our exposure. A strengthening in the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies in the countries in which we operate, such as has generally occurred during the COVID-19 pandemic to-date, would negatively affect our reported results of operations and financial results due to currency translation losses and currency transaction losses. 11 Our business operations could be disrupted if our information technology systems fail to perform adequately or are breached. Information technology serves an important role in the efficient and effective operation of our business. We rely on information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit, and store electronic information to manage a variety of business processes and to comply with regulatory, legal, and tax requirements. Our information technology systems and infrastructure are critical to effectively manage our key business processes including digital marketing, order entry and fulfillment, supply chain management, finance, administration, and other business processes. These technologies enable internal and external communication among our locations, employees, suppliers, customers, and others and include the receipt and storage of personal information about our employees, consumers, and proprietary business information. Our information technology systems, some of which are dependent on services provided by third parties, may be vulnerable to damage, interruption, or shutdown due to any number of causes such as catastrophic events, natural disasters, fires, power outages, systems failures, telecommunications failures, security breaches, computer viruses, hackers, employee error or malfeasance, and other causes. Increased cyber-security threats pose a potential risk to the security and viability of our information technology systems, as well as the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the data stored on those systems. The failure of our information technology systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and result in transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, data loss, legal claims or proceedings, regulatory penalties, and the loss of sales and customers. Any interruption of our information technology systems could have operational, reputational, legal, and financial impacts that may have a material adverse effect on our business. Our failure to successfully integrate acquisitions into our existing operations could adversely affect our financial results. From time to time, we evaluate potential acquisitions or joint ventures that would further our strategic objectives. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to integrate acquired and existing operations. If we are unable to successfully integrate acquisitions, our financial results could suffer. Additional potential risks associated with acquisitions include additional debt leverage, the loss of key employees and customers of the acquired business, the assumption of unknown liabilities, the inherent risk associated with entering a geographic area or line of business in which we have no or limited prior experience, failure to achieve anticipated synergies, and the impairment of goodwill or other acquisition-related intangible assets. Legal and Regulatory Risks If our products become adulterated, misbranded, or mislabeled, we might need to recall those items and may experience product liability claims if consumers or their pets are injured. We may need to recall some of our products if they become adulterated, misbranded, or mislabeled. A widespread product recall could result in significant losses due to the costs of a recall, the destruction of product inventory, and lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period of time. We could also suffer losses from a significant product liability judgment against us. A significant product recall or product liability case could also result in adverse publicity, damage to our reputation, and a loss of consumer confidence in our products, which could have an adverse effect on our business results and the value of our brands. New regulations or regulatory-based claims could adversely affect our business. Our facilities and products are subject to many laws and regulations administered by the United States Department of Agriculture, the Federal Food and Drug Administration, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, and other federal, state, local, and foreign governmental agencies relating to the production, packaging, labelling, storage, distribution, quality, and safety of food products and the health and safety of our employees. Our failure to comply with such laws and regulations could subject us to lawsuits, administrative penalties, and civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, and recalls of our products. We advertise our products and could be the target of claims relating to alleged false or deceptive advertising under federal, state, and foreign laws and regulations. We may also be subject to new laws or regulations restricting our right to advertise our products, including restrictions on the audience to whom products are marketed. Changes in laws or regulations that impose additional regulatory requirements on us could increase our cost of doing business or restrict our actions, causing our results of operations to be adversely affected. Significant COVID-19 related changes in the political conditions in markets in which we manufacture, sell or distribute our products (including quarantines, import/export restrictions, price controls, governmental or regulatory actions, closures or other restrictions that limit or close our operating and manufacturing facilities, restrict our employees’ ability to travel or perform necessary business functions or otherwise prevent our third-party partners, suppliers, or customers from sufficiently staffing operations, including operations necessary for the production, distribution, sale, and support of our products) could adversely impact our operations and results. We are subject to various federal, state, local, and foreign environmental laws and regulations. Our failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations could subject us to lawsuits, administrative penalties, and civil remedies. We are currently party to a variety of environmental remediation obligations. Due to regulatory complexities, uncertainties inherent in litigation, and the risk of unidentified contaminants on current and former properties of ours, the potential exists for remediation, liability, indemnification, and 12 compliance costs to differ from our estimates. We cannot guarantee that our costs in relation to these matters, or compliance with environmental laws in general, will not exceed our established liabilities or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Financial and Economic Risks Volatility in the market value of derivatives we use to manage exposures to fluctuations in commodity prices will cause volatility in our gross margins and net earnings. We utilize derivatives to manage price risk for some of our principal ingredient and energy costs, including grains (oats, wheat, and corn), oils (principally soybean), dairy products, natural gas, and diesel fuel. Changes in the values of these derivatives are recorded in earnings currently, resulting in volatility in both gross margin and net earnings. These gains and losses are reported in cost of sales in our Consolidated Statements of Earnings and in unallocated corporate items outside our segment operating results until we utilize the underlying input in our manufacturing process, at which time the gains and losses are reclassified to segment operating profit. We also record our grain inventories at net realizable value. We may experience volatile earnings as a result of these accounting treatments. Economic downturns could limit consumer demand for our products. The willingness of consumers to purchase our products depends in part on local economic conditions. In periods of economic uncertainty, consumers may purchase more generic, private label, and other economy brands and may forego certain purchases altogether. In those circumstances, we could experience a reduction in sales of higher margin products or a shift in our product mix to lower margin offerings. In addition, as a result of economic conditions or competitive actions, we may be unable to raise our prices sufficiently to protect margins. Consumers may also reduce the amount of food that they consume away from home at customers that purchase products from our Convenience Stores & Foodservice segment. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which could limit financing and other options and in some cases adversely affect our ability to pay dividends. As of May 30, 2021, we had total debt, redeemable interests, and noncontrolling interests of $13.5 billion. The agreements under which we have issued indebtedness do not prevent us from incurring additional unsecured indebtedness in the future. Our level of indebtedness may limit our:  ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, or general corporate purposes, particularly if the ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating organizations were revised downward; and  flexibility to adjust to changing business and market conditions and may make us more vulnerable to a downturn in general economic conditions. There are various financial covenants and other restrictions in our debt instruments and noncontrolling interests. If we fail to comply with any of these requirements, the related indebtedness, and other unrelated indebtedness, could become due and payable prior to its stated maturity and our ability to obtain additional or alternative financing may also be adversely affected. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt and other obligations will depend on our operating and financial performance, which in turn is subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business, and other factors beyond our control. Global capital and credit market issues could negatively affect our liquidity, increase our costs of borrowing, and disrupt the operations of our suppliers and customers. We depend on stable, liquid, and well-functioning capital and credit markets to fund our operations. Although we believe that our operating cash flows, financial assets, access to capital and credit markets, and revolving credit agreements will permit us to meet our financing needs for the foreseeable future, there can be no assurance that future volatility or disruption in the capital and credit markets will not impair our liquidity or increase our costs of borrowing. We also utilize interest rate derivatives to reduce the volatility of our financing costs. If we are not effective in hedging this volatility, we may experience an increase in our costs of borrowing. Our business could also be negatively impacted if our suppliers or customers experience disruptions resulting from tighter capital and credit markets or a slowdown in the general economy. The COVID-19 pandemic has increased volatility and pricing in the capital markets. We may not have access to preferred sources of liquidity when needed or on terms we find acceptable, and our borrowing costs could increase. An economic or credit crisis could occur and impair credit availability and our ability to raise capital when needed. A disruption in the financial markets may have a 13 negative effect on our derivative counterparties and could impair our banking or other business partners, on whom we rely for access to capital and as counterparties to our derivative contracts. From time to time, we issue variable rate securities based on interbank offered rates (IBORs) and enter into interest rate swaps that contain a variable element based on an IBOR. There is currently uncertainty whether certain IBORs will continue to be available after 2021. If certain IBORs cease to be available, we may need to amend affected agreements, and we cannot predict what alternative index would be negotiated with our counterparties and security holders. As a result, our interest expense could increase and our available cash flow for general corporate requirements may be adversely affected. Volatility in the securities markets, interest rates, and other factors could substantially increase our defined benefit pension, other postretirement benefit, and postemployment benefit costs. We sponsor a number of defined benefit plans for employees in the United States, Canada, and various foreign locations, including defined benefit pension, retiree health and welfare, severance, and other postemployment plans. Our major defined benefit pension plans are funded with trust assets invested in a globally diversified portfolio of securities and other investments. Changes in interest rates, mortality rates, health care costs, early retirement rates, investment returns, and the market value of plan assets can affect the funded status of our defined benefit plans and cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost and future funding requirements of the plans. A significant increase in our obligations or future funding requirements could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows from operations. A change in the assumptions regarding the future performance of our businesses or a different weighted-average cost of capital used to value our reporting units or our indefinite-lived intangible assets could negatively affect our consolidated results of operations and net worth. As of May 30, 2021, we had $20.7 billion of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets. Goodwill for each of our reporting units is tested for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. We compare the carrying value of the reporting unit, including goodwill, to the fair value of the reporting unit. If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than the carrying value of the reporting unit, including goodwill, impairment has occurred. Our estimates of fair value are determined based on a discounted cash flow model. Growth rates for sales and profits are determined using inputs from our long-range planning process. We also make estimates of discount rates, perpetuity growth assumptions, market comparables, and other factors. If current expectations for growth rates for sales and profits are not met, or other market factors and macroeconomic conditions that could be affected by the COVID-19 pandemic or otherwise were to change, then our reporting units could become significantly impaired. Our Europe & Australia reporting unit had experienced declining business performance, and we continue to monitor this business. While we currently believe that our goodwill is not impaired, different assumptions regarding the future performance of our businesses could result in significant impairment losses. We evaluate the useful lives of our intangible assets, primarily intangible assets associated with the Blue Buffalo , Pillsbury , Totino’s , Progresso , Yoplait , Old El Paso , Yoki , Häagen-Dazs , and Annie’s brands, to determine if they are finite or indefinite-lived. Reaching a determination on useful life requires significant judgments and assumptions regarding the future effects of obsolescence, demand, competition, other economic factors (such as the stability of the industry, known technological advances, legislative action that results in an uncertain or changing regulatory environment, and expected changes in distribution channels), the level of required maintenance expenditures, and the expected lives of other related groups of assets. Our indefinite-lived intangible assets are also tested for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. Our estimate of the fair value of the brands is based on a discounted cash flow model using inputs including projected revenues from our long-range plan, assumed royalty rates which could be payable if we did not own the brands, and a discount rate. If current expectations for growth rates for sales and margins are not met, or other market factors and macroeconomic conditions that could be affected by the COVID-19 pandemic or otherwise were to change, then our indefinite-lived intangible assets could become significantly impaired. Our Progresso , Green Giant , and EPIC brands had experienced declining business performance, and we continue to monitor these businesses. For further information on goodwill and intangible assets, please refer to Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report.

 ####### ITEM 7 ##########
  ITEM 7 - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW We are a global packaged foods company. We develop distinctive value-added food products and market them under unique brand names. We work continuously to improve our core products and to create new products that meet consumers’ evolving needs and preferences. In addition, we build the equity of our brands over time with strong consumer-directed marketing, innovative new products, and effective merchandising. We believe our brand-building approach is the key to winning and sustaining leading share positions in markets around the globe. Our fundamental financial goal is to generate competitively differentiated returns for our shareholders over the long term. We believe achieving that goal requires us to generate a consistent balance of net sales growth, margin expansion, cash conversion, and cash return to shareholders over time. Our long-term growth objectives are to deliver the following performance on average over time:  2 to 3 percent annual growth in organic net sales;  mid-single-digit annual growth in adjusted operating profit;  mid- to high-single-digit annual growth in adjusted diluted earnings per share (EPS);  free cash flow conversion of at least 95 percent of adjusted net earnings after tax; and  cash return to shareholders of 80 to 90 percent of free cash flow, including an attractive dividend yield. We are executing our Accelerate strategy to drive sustainable, profitable growth and top-tier shareholder returns over the long term. The strategy focuses on four pillars to create competitive advantages and win: boldly building brands, relentlessly innovating, unleashing our scale, and being a force for good. We are prioritizing our core markets, global platforms, and local gem brands that have the best prospects for profitable growth and we are committed to reshaping our portfolio with strategic acquisitions and divestitures to further enhance our growth profile. We expect that changes in consumer behaviors driven by the COVID-19 pandemic will result in ongoing elevated consumer demand for food at home, relative to pre-pandemic levels. These changes include more time spent working from home and increased consumer appreciation for cooking and baking. We plan to capitalize on these opportunities, addressing evolving consumer needs through our leading brands, innovation, and advantaged capabilities to generate profitable growth. In fiscal 2021, we executed well amid the uncertain environment caused by the pandemic, delivering strong growth in organic net sales, adjusted operating profit, and adjusted diluted EPS. We achieved each of the three priorities we established at the beginning of the year: We competed effectively, everywhere we play, highlighted by market share gains across each of our five global platforms: cereal, pet food, ice cream, snack bars, and Mexican food. Our positive market share performance amid pandemic-driven elevated demand for food at home helped drive organic net sales growth in our North America Retail, Europe & Australia, and Asia & Latin America segments. Conversely, lower away-from-home food demand stemming from the pandemic resulted in a decline in organic net sales for our Convenience Stores & Foodservice segment. For our Pet segment, which was largely unaffected by the pandemic, we were able to generate organic net sales growth despite the comparison against an extra month of results in the prior year. We drove efficiency to fuel investment in our brands and capabilities. We generated strong levels of Holistic Margin Management (HMM) cost savings and were able to meaningfully increase our investment in brand building activities and in strategic capabilities such as E-commerce, Digital, Data & Analytics, and Strategic Revenue Management. We reduced our debt leverage and increased our financial flexibility. As a result of our continued cash discipline, we were able to reduce our debt and generate a reduction in our leverage ratio. Due to our improved balance sheet position, we were able to resume dividend growth and share repurchase activity during fiscal 2021. We also announced important transactions during fiscal 2021 intended to reshape our portfolio for growth, in line with our Accelerate strategy. In March 2021, we announced the proposed sale of our European Yoplait operations to Sodiaal, in exchange for full ownership of the Canadian Yoplait business and a reduced royalty rate for the use of the Yoplait and Liberté brands in the United States and Canada. The proposed transaction would be anticipated to close by the end of calendar 2021, subject to appropriate labor consultations, regulatory filings, and other customary closing conditions. In May 2021, we reached a definitive agreement to acquire Tyson Foods’ pet treats business for $1.2 billion in cash. The acquisition is expected to close in the first quarter of fiscal 2022, subject to regulatory approval and other customary closing conditions. 17 Our consolidated net sales for fiscal 2021 rose 3 percent to $18.1 billion. On an organic basis, net sales increased 4 percent compared to year-ago levels. Operating profit of $3.1 billion increased 6 percent. Adjusted operating profit of $3.2 billion increased 2 percent on a constant-currency basis. Diluted EPS of $3.78 was up 6 percent compared to fiscal 2020 results. Adjusted diluted EPS of $3.79 increased 4 percent on a constant-currency basis (See the “Non-GAAP Measures” section below for a description of our use of measures not defined by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP)). Net cash provided by operations totaled $3.0 billion in fiscal 2021 representing a conversion rate of 127 percent of net earnings, including earnings attributable to redeemable and noncontrolling interests. This cash generation supported capital investments totaling $531 million, and our resulting free cash flow was $2.4 billion at a conversion rate of 103 percent of adjusted net earnings, including earnings attributable to redeemable and noncontrolling interests. We returned cash to shareholders through dividends totaling $1.2 billion and share repurchases totaling $301 million, and we reduced total debt outstanding by $928 million. Our ratio of net debt-to-operating cash flow was 3.7 in fiscal 2021, and our net debt-to-adjusted earnings before net interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization (net debt-to-adjusted EBITDA) ratio was 2.9 (See the “Non-GAAP Measures” section below for a description of our use of measures not defined by GAAP). A detailed review of our fiscal 2021 performance compared to fiscal 2020 appears below in the section titled “Fiscal 2021 Consolidated Results of Operations.” A detailed review of our fiscal 2020 performance compared to our fiscal 2019 performance is set forth in Part II, Item 7 of our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2020 under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Fiscal 2020 Results of Consolidated Operations,” which is incorporated herein by reference. In fiscal 2022, we expect to continue to compete effectively in a dynamic environment, work aggressively to navigate a turbulent cost environment, and successfully execute our portfolio and organization reshaping actions. We expect the largest factors impacting our performance will be the relative balance of at-home versus away-from-home consumer food demand and the inflationary cost environment, both of which remain uncertain. We expect at-home food demand will decline year over year across most of our core markets, though will remain above pre-pandemic levels. Conversely, we expect away-from-home food demand to continue to recover, though not fully to pre-pandemic levels. With roughly 85 percent of our net sales representing at-home food occasions, we expect these dynamics to result in lower aggregate consumer demand in our categories in fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021 levels. Total input cost inflation is expected to be approximately 7 percent of cost of goods sold in fiscal 2022. We are addressing the inflationary environment with strong HMM cost savings expected to total roughly 4 percent of cost of goods sold and with positive net price realization generated through our Strategic Revenue Management capability. Based on these assumptions, our key full-year fiscal 2022 targets are summarized below:  Organic net sales are expected to decline 1 to 3 percent, which is generally in line with the expected level of aggregate category demand in fiscal 2022.  Constant-currency adjusted operating profit is expected to decline 2 to 4 percent from the base of $3.2 billion reported in fiscal 2021.  Constant-currency adjusted diluted EPS are expected to range between flat and down 2 percent from the base of $3.79 earned in fiscal 2021.  Relative to pre-pandemic levels in fiscal 2019, the midpoints of these fiscal 2022 guidance ranges equate to 3-year compound annual growth rates of approximately 2 percent for organic net sales, approximately 2 percent for constant-currency adjusted operating profit, and approximately 5 percent for constant-currency adjusted diluted EPS.  Free cash flow conversion is expected to be approximately 95 percent of adjusted after-tax earnings. See the “Non-GAAP Measures” section below for a description of our use of measures not defined by GAAP. Certain terms used throughout this report are defined in a glossary in Item 8 of this report. FISCAL 2021 CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Fiscal 2021 had 52 weeks compared to 53 weeks in fiscal 2020. Fiscal 2020 included 13 months of Pet operating segment results as we changed the Pet operating segment’s reporting period from an April fiscal year end to a May fiscal year end to match our fiscal calendar. In fiscal 2021, net sales increased 3 percent compared to fiscal 2020 and organic net sales increased 4 percent compared to last year. Operating profit margin of 17.3 percent was up 50 basis points from year-ago levels primarily driven by favorable net price realization and mix, a favorable change to the mark-to-market valuation of certain commodity positions and grain inventories, and favorable net corporate investment activity, partially offset by higher input costs, higher restructuring charges, and the loss on the sale of our 18 Laticínios Carolina business in Brazil. Adjusted operating profit margin increased 10 basis points to 17.4 percent, primarily driven by favorable net price realization and mix and lower selling, general, and administrative (SG&A) expenses, partially offset by higher input costs. Diluted earnings per share of $3.78 increased 6 percent compared to fiscal 2020. Adjusted diluted earnings per share of $3.79 increased 4 percent on a constant-currency basis (see the “Non-GAAP Measures” section below for a description of our use of measures not defined by GAAP). A summary of our consolidated financial results for fiscal 2021 follows: Consolidated net sales were as follows: The 3 percent increase in net sales in fiscal 2021 reflects favorable net price realization and mix and favorable foreign currency exchange. Components of organic net sales growth are shown in the following table: Fiscal 2021 vs. Fiscal 2020 Contributions from organic volume growth (a) 2 pts Organic net price realization and mix 2 pts Organic net sales growth 4 pts Foreign currency exchange 1 pt 53rd week (2) pts Net sales growth 3 pts Note: Table may not foot due to rounding (a) Measured in tons based on the stated weight of our product shipments. Organic net sales in fiscal 2021 increased 4 percent compared to fiscal 2020, driven by an increase in contributions from organic volume growth and favorable organic net price realization and mix. Cost of sales increased $182 million in fiscal 2021 to $11,679 million. The increase was primarily driven by a $366 million increase attributable to product rate and mix and a $43 million increase due to higher volume. We recorded a $139 million net decrease in cost of sales related to mark-to-market valuation of certain commodity positions and grain inventories in fiscal 2021, compared to a net increase of $25 million in fiscal 2020 (please see Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for additional information). In fiscal 2021, we recorded $2 million of restructuring charges in cost of sales, compared to $26 million of restructuring charges and $2 million of restructuring initiative project-related costs in fiscal 2020 (please see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for additional information). In fiscal 2020, we recorded a $19 million charge related to a product recall in our international Green Giant business. In fiscal 2020, we recorded an $18 million increase in certain compensation and benefits expenses. 19 Gross margin increased 5 percent in fiscal 2021 versus fiscal 2020. Gross margin as a percent of net sales increased 80 basis points to 35.6 percent compared to fiscal 2020. SG&A expenses decreased $72 million to $3,080 million in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020. The decrease in SG&A expenses primarily reflects favorable net corporate investment activity and decreased administrative expenses, partially offset by higher media and advertising expenses. SG&A expenses as a percent of net sales in fiscal 2021 decreased 90 basis points compared to fiscal 2020. Divestiture loss totaled $54 million in fiscal 2021 due to the sale of our Laticínios Carolina business in Brazil (please see Note 3 of the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report). Restructuring, impairment, and other exit costs totaled $170 million in fiscal 2021 compared to $24 million in fiscal 2020. In fiscal 2021, we approved restructuring actions designed to better align our organizational structure and resources with strategic initiatives. As a result, we recorded $157 million of charges in fiscal 2021. We also recorded $11 million of charges related to Asia & Latin America segment route-to-market and supply chain optimization actions in fiscal 2021. We did not undertake any new restructuring actions in fiscal 2020. Please see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for additional information. Benefit plan non-service income totaled $133 million in fiscal 2021 compared to $113 million in fiscal 2020, primarily reflecting lower interest costs, partially offset by lower expected returns on plan assets (please see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for additional information). Interest, net for fiscal 2021 totaled $420 million, $46 million lower than fiscal 2020, primarily driven by lower rates and lower average debt balances. Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2021 was 22.0 percent compared to 18.5 percent in fiscal 2020. The 3.5 percentage point increase was primarily due to the net benefit related to the reorganization of certain wholly owned subsidiaries in fiscal 2020, the non-deductible loss associated with the sale of our Laticínios Carolina business in Brazil in fiscal 2021, and certain nonrecurring discrete tax benefits in fiscal 2020. Our adjusted effective tax rate was 21.1 percent in fiscal 2021 compared to 20.7 percent in fiscal 2020 (see the “Non-GAAP Measures” section below for a description of our use of measures not defined by GAAP). After-tax earnings from joint ventures increased 29 percent to $118 million in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020, primarily driven by higher net sales at CPW and HDJ. On a constant-currency basis, after-tax earnings from joint ventures increased 26 percent (see the “Non-GAAP Measures” section below for a description of our use of measures not defined by GAAP). The components of our joint ventures’ net sales growth are shown in the following table: Fiscal 2021 vs. Fiscal 2020 CPW HDJ Total Contributions from volume growth (a) 4 pts 2 pts Net price realization and mix 1 pt 4 pts Net sales growth in constant currency 5 pts 6 pts 5 pts Foreign currency exchange 1 pt 2 pts 1 pt Net sales growth 6 pts 8 pts 6 pts Note: Table may not foot due to rounding (a) Measured in tons based on the stated weight of our product shipments Net earnings attributable to redeemable and noncontrolling interests decreased 79 percent to $6 million primarily due to the redeemable interest’s 49 percent share of the loss on sale of the Laticínios Carolina business in Brazil. Average diluted shares outstanding increased by 6 million in fiscal 2021 from fiscal 2020 primarily due to option exercises. RESULTS OF SEGMENT OPERATIONS Our businesses are organized into five operating segments: North America Retail; Europe & Australia; Convenience Stores & Foodservice; Pet, and Asia & Latin America. F iscal 2020 includes 13 months of Pet operating segment results as we changed the Pet operating segment’s reporting period from an April fiscal year end to a May fiscal year end to match our fiscal calendar. 20 The following tables provide the dollar amount and percentage of net sales and operating profit from each segment for fiscal 2021 and fiscal 2020: Segment operating profit as reviewed by our executive management excludes unallocated corporate items, net gain/loss on divestitures, and restructuring, impairment, and other exit costs that are centrally managed. NORTH AMERICA RETAIL SEGMENT Our North America Retail operating segment reflects business with a wide variety of grocery stores, mass merchandisers, membership stores, natural food chains, drug, dollar and discount chains, and e-commerce grocery providers. Our product categories in this business segment are ready-to-eat cereals, refrigerated yogurt, soup, meal kits, refrigerated and frozen dough products, dessert and baking mixes, frozen pizza and pizza snacks, snack bars, fruit snacks, savory snacks, and a wide variety of organic products including ready-to-eat cereal, frozen and shelf-stable vegetables, meal kits, fruit snacks, snack bars, and refrigerated yogurt. North America Retail net sales were as follows: Note: Table may not foot due to rounding. (a) Measured in tons based on the stated weight of our product shipments. The 2 percent increase in North America Retail net sales for fiscal 2021 was primarily driven by favorable net price realization and mix and an increase in contributions from volume growth. The 53 rd week in fiscal 2020 contributed 2 percentage points of net sales decline in fiscal 2021, reflecting 2 percentage points of decline from volume. 21 The components of North America Retail organic net sales growth are shown in the following table: Fiscal 2021 vs. 2020 Percentage Change Contributions from organic volume growth (a) 3 pts Organic net price realization and mix 1 pt Organic net sales growth 4 pts Foreign currency exchange Flat 53 rd week (2) pts Net sales growth 2 pts Note: Table may not foot due to rounding. (a) Measured in tons based on the stated weight of our product shipments. North America Retail organic net sales increased 4 percent in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020, primarily driven by an increase in contributions from organic volume growth and favorable organic net price realization and mix. Net sales for our North America Retail operating units are shown in the following table: (a) On a constant currency basis, Canada operating unit net sales increased 3 percent in fiscal 2021. See the “Non-GAAP Measures” section below for our use of this measure not defined by GAAP. Segment operating profit of $2,623 million in fiscal 2021 essentially matched fiscal 2020 levels, as higher input costs were offset by favorable net price realization and mix and an increase in contributions from volume growth. Segment operating profit was flat on a constant-currency basis in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020 (see the “Non-GAAP Measures” section below for our use of this measure not defined by GAAP). EUROPE & AUSTRALIA SEGMENT Our Europe & Australia operating segment reflects retail and foodservice businesses in the greater Europe and Australia regions. Our product categories include refrigerated yogurt, meal kits, snack bars, super-premium ice cream, refrigerated and frozen dough products, shelf stable vegetables, and dessert and baking mixes. Revenues from franchise fees are reported in the region or country where the franchisee is located. Europe & Australia net sales were as follows: Note: Table may not foot due to rounding. (a) Measured in tons based on the stated weight of our product shipments. The 8 percent increase in Europe & Australia net sales in fiscal 2021 was primarily driven by favorable foreign currency exchange and favorable net price realization and mix, partially offset by a decrease in contributions from volume growth. The 53 rd week in fiscal 2020 contributed 2 percentage points of net sales decline in fiscal 2021, reflecting 2 percentage points of decline from volume. 22 The components of Europe & Australia organic net sales growth are shown in the following table: Fiscal 2021 vs. 2020 Percentage Change Contributions from organic volume growth (a) Flat Organic net price realization and mix 4 pts Organic net sales growth 3 pts Foreign currency exchange 7 pts Divestiture (1) pt 53 rd week (2) pts Net sales growth 8 pts Note: Table may not foot due to rounding (a) Measured in tons based on the stated weight of our product shipments. The 3 percent increase in Europe & Australia organic net sales growth in fiscal 2021 was primarily driven by favorable organic net price realization and mix. Segment operating profit increased 33 percent to $151 million in fiscal 2021 compared to $114 million in 2020, primarily driven by favorable net price realization and mix, partially offset by higher input costs. Segment operating profit increased 24 percent on a constant-currency basis in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020 (see the “Non-GAAP Measures” section below for our use of this measure not defined by GAAP). CONVENIENCE STORES & FOODSERVICE SEGMENT Our major product categories in our Convenience Stores & Foodservice operating segment are ready-to-eat cereals, snacks, refrigerated yogurt, frozen meals, unbaked and fully baked frozen dough products, baking mixes, and bakery flour. Many products we sell are branded to the consumer and nearly all are branded to our customers. We sell to distributors and operators in many customer channels including foodservice, convenience stores, vending, and supermarket bakeries in the United States. Convenience Stores & Foodservice net sales were as follows: Note: Table may not foot due to rounding. (a) Measured in tons based on the stated weight of our product shipments. Convenience Stores & Foodservice net sales decreased 4 percent in fiscal 2021 primarily driven by a decrease in contributions from volume growth. The 53 rd week in fiscal 2020 contributed 1 percentage point of net sales decline in fiscal 2021, reflecting 1 percentage point of decline from volume. The components of Convenience Stores & Foodservice organic net sales growth are shown in the following table: Fiscal 2021 vs. 2020 Percentage Change Contributions from organic volume growth (a) (2) pts Organic net price realization and mix (1) pt Organic net sales growth (3) pts 53 rd week (1) pt Net sales growth (4) pts Note: Table may not foot due to rounding (a) Measured in tons based on the standard weight of our product shipments The 3 percent decrease in Convenience Stores & Foodservice organic net sales growth in fiscal 2021 was primarily driven by a decrease in contributions from organic volume growth and unfavorable organic net price realization and mix. 23 Segment operating profit decreased 9 percent to $306 million in fiscal 2021, compared to $337 million in fiscal 2020, primarily driven by higher input costs, unfavorable net price realization and mix, and a decrease in contributions from volume growth. PET SEGMENT Our Pet operating segment includes pet food products sold primarily in the United States in national pet superstore chains, e-commerce retailers, grocery stores, regional pet store chains, mass merchandisers, and veterinary clinics and hospitals. Our product categories include dog and cat food (dry foods, wet foods, and treats) made with whole meats, fruits, and vegetables and other high-quality natural ingredients. Our tailored pet product offerings address specific dietary, lifestyle, and life-stage needs and span different product types, diet types, breed sizes for dogs, lifestages, flavors, product functions and textures, and cuts for wet foods. Fiscal 2021 included 12 months of results. F iscal 2020 included 13 months of Pet operating segment results as we changed the Pet operating segment’s reporting period from an April fiscal year end to a May fiscal year end to match our fiscal calendar. Pet net sales were as follows: Note: Table may not foot due to rounding. (a) Measured in tons based on the stated weight of our product shipments. Pet net sales increased 2 percent in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020, primarily driven by an increase in contributions from volume growth. The components of Pet organic net sales growth are shown in the following table: Fiscal 2021 vs. 2020 Percentage Change Contributions from organic volume growth (a) 2 pts Organic net price realization and mix Flat Organic net sales growth 2 pts Foreign currency exchange Flat Net sales growth 2 pts Note: Table may not foot due to rounding. (a) Measured in tons based on the stated weight of our product shipments. The 2 percent increase in Pet organic net sales growth in fiscal 2021 was primarily driven by an increase in contributions from organic volume growth. Pet operating profit increased 6 percent to $415 million in fiscal 2021, compared to $391 million in fiscal 2020, primarily driven by an increase in contributions from volume growth, lower SG&A expenses, and favorable net price realization and mix, partially offset by higher input costs. Segment operating profit increased 6 percent on a constant-currency basis in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020 (see the “Non-GAAP Measures” section below for our use of this measure not defined by GAAP). ASIA & LATIN AMERICA SEGMENT Our Asia & Latin America operating segment consists of retail and foodservice businesses in the greater Asia and South America regions. Our product categories include super-premium ice cream and frozen desserts, meal kits, dessert and baking mixes, snack bars, salty snacks, refrigerated and frozen dough products, and wellness beverages. We also sell super-premium ice cream and frozen desserts directly to consumers through owned retail shops. Our Asia & Latin America segment also includes products manufactured in the United States for export, mainly to Caribbean and Latin American markets, as well as products we manufacture for sale to our international joint ventures. Revenues from export activities and franchise fees are reported in the region or country where the end customer or franchisee is located. 24 Asia & Latin America net sales were as follows: Note: Table may not foot due to rounding. (a) Measured in tons based on the stated weight of our product shipments. Asia & Latin America net sales increased 10 percent in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020, primarily driven by an increase in contributions from volume growth and favorable net price realization and mix, partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency exchange. The 53 rd week in fiscal 2020 contributed 2 percentage points of net sales decline in fiscal 2021, reflecting 2 percentage points of decline in volume. The components of Asia & Latin America organic net sales growth are shown in the following table: Fiscal 2021 vs. 2020 Percentage Change Contributions from organic volume growth (a) 12 pts Organic net price realization and mix 3 pts Organic net sales growth 15 pts Foreign currency exchange (4) pts 53 rd week (2) pts Net sales growth 10 pts Note: Table may not foot due to rounding. (a) Measured in tons based on the stated weight of our product shipments. The 15 percent increase in Asia & Latin America organic net sales in fiscal 2021 was primarily driven by an increase in contributions from organic volume growth and favorable organic net price realization and mix. Segment operating profit increased $67 million to $86 million in fiscal 2021, compared to $19 million in fiscal 2020, primarily driven by favorable net price realization and mix, an increase in contributions from volume growth, and favorable foreign currency exchange, partially offset by higher input costs. UNALLOCATED CORPORATE ITEMS Unallocated corporate items include corporate overhead expenses, variances to planned domestic employee benefits and incentives, contributions to the General Mills Foundation, asset and liability remeasurement impact of hyperinflationary economies, restructuring initiative project-related costs, and other items that are not part of our measurement of segment operating performance. This includes gains and losses from the mark-to-market valuation of certain commodity positions until passed back to our operating segments in accordance with our policy as discussed in Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. In fiscal 2021, unallocated corporate expense decreased $297 million to $212 million compared to $509 million last year. In fiscal 2021, we recorded a $139 million net decrease in expense related to mark-to-market valuation of certain commodity positions and grain inventories, compared to a $25 million net increase in expense in the prior year. In addition, we recorded $2 million of restructuring charges in cost of sales in fiscal 2021, compared to $26 million of restructuring charges and $2 million of restructuring initiative project-related costs in cost of sales in fiscal 2020. We also recorded a $4 million favorable adjustment related to a product recall in our international Green Giant business in fiscal 2021, compared to a $19 million charge in fiscal 2020. In fiscal 2021, we recorded $76 million of net gains related to valuation adjustments and the gain on sale of certain corporate investments, compared to $8 million of net losses related to valuation adjustments and the loss on sale of certain corporate investments in fiscal 2020. In fiscal 2021, we recorded $10 million of transaction costs related to our non-binding memorandum of understanding to sell our 51 percent controlling interest in our European Yoplait business and our planned acquisition of Tyson Foods’ pet treats business. In addition, we recorded a $9 million gain related to a Brazil indirect tax item in fiscal 2021. 25 IMPACT OF INFLATION We experienced input cost inflation of 4 percent in fiscal 2021 and 4 percent in fiscal 2020, primarily on commodity inputs. We expect input cost inflation of approximately 7 percent in fiscal 2022. We attempt to minimize the effects of inflation through HMM, strategic revenue management, planning, and operating practices. Our risk management practices are discussed in Item 7A of this report. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES The primary source of our liquidity is cash flow from operations. Over the most recent two-year period, our operations have generated $6.6 billion in cash. A substantial portion of this operating cash flow has been returned to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. We also use cash from operations to fund our capital expenditures and acquisitions. We typically use a combination of cash, notes payable, and long-term debt, and occasionally issue shares of common stock, to finance significant acquisitions. Our sources of liquidity were not materially impacted from the COVID-19 pandemic. As of May 30, 2021, we had $687 million of cash and cash equivalents held in foreign jurisdictions. In anticipation of repatriating funds from foreign jurisdictions, we record local country withholding taxes on our international earnings, as applicable. We may repatriate our cash and cash equivalents held by our foreign subsidiaries without such funds being subject to further U.S. income tax liability. Earnings prior to fiscal 2018 from our foreign subsidiaries remain permanently reinvested in those jurisdictions. Cash Flows from Operations During fiscal 2021, cash provided by operations was $2,983 million compared to $3,676 million in the same period last year. The $693 million decrease was primarily driven by a $950 million change in current assets and liabilities, partially offset by a $148 million change in deferred income taxes and a $135 million increase in net earnings. The $950 million change in current assets and liabilities was primarily driven by a $458 million change in inventory balances and a $296 million change in other current liabilities, primarily driven by changes in income taxes payable, incentive accruals, and trade and advertising accruals. We strive to grow core working capital at or below the rate of growth in our net sales. For fiscal 2021, core working capital increased 6 percent, compared to a net sales increase of 3 percent. As of May 30, 2021, our core working capital balance was a net liability of $194 million compared to a net liability of $206 million in fiscal 2020. The $12 million change was primarily due to lower inventory balances in fiscal 2020 driven by the surge in at-home demand at the outset of the pandemic, partially offset by an increase in accounts payable in fiscal 2021 due to increased costs incurred to service demand. In fiscal 2020, core working capital decreased $591 million, compared to a net sales increase of 5 percent. 26 Cash Flows from Investing Activities In fiscal 2021, we used $513 million of cash through investing activities compared to $486 million in fiscal 2020. We invested $531 million in land, buildings, and equipment in fiscal 2021, an increase of $70 million from fiscal 2020. We expect capital expenditures to be approximately 3.5 percent of reported net sales in fiscal 2022. These expenditures will fund initiatives that are expected to fuel growth, support innovative products, and continue HMM initiatives throughout the supply chain. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Financing activities used $2.7 billion of cash in fiscal 2021 compared to $1.9 billion in fiscal 2020. We had $961 million of net debt repayments in fiscal 2021 compared to $917 million of net debt repayments in fiscal 2020. In addition, we paid a participation incentive of $201 million related to a debt exchange in fiscal 2021. For more information on our debt issuances and payments, please refer to Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. During fiscal 2021, we received $74 million of net proceeds from common stock issued on exercised options compared to $263 million in fiscal 2020. During fiscal 2021, we repurchased 5 million shares of our common stock for $301 million. Share repurchases in fiscal 2020 were insignificant. Dividends paid in fiscal 2021 totaled $1,246 million, or $2.02 per share. Dividends paid in fiscal 2020 totaled $1,196 million, or $1.96 per share. Selected Cash Flows from Joint Ventures Selected cash flows from our joint ventures are set forth in the following table: 27 The following table details the fee-paid committed and uncommitted credit lines we had available as of May 30, 2021: To ensure availability of funds, we maintain bank credit lines and have commercial paper programs available to us in the United States and Europe. In response to uncertainty surrounding the availability and cost of commercial paper borrowings as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we issued $750 million of fixed-rate notes in April 2020 and reduced our borrowings under commercial paper programs. As the COVID-19 pandemic evolves, we will continue to evaluate its impact to our sources of liquidity. We also have uncommitted and asset-backed credit lines that support our foreign operations. We have material contractual obligations that arise in the normal course of business and we believe that cash flows from operations will be adequate to meet our liquidity and capital needs for at least the next 12 months. Certain of our long-term debt agreements, our credit facilities, and our noncontrolling interests contain restrictive covenants. As of May 30, 2021, we were in compliance with all of these covenants. We have $2,464 million of long-term debt maturing in the next 12 months that is classified as current, including €200 million of 2.2 percent fixed-rate notes due June 2021, €500 million of 0.0 percent fixed-rate notes due August 2021, €500 million of 0.0 percent fixed-rate notes due November 2021, and $1 billion of 3.15 percent fixed-rate notes due December 2021. We believe that cash flows from operations, together with available short- and long-term debt financing, will be adequate to meet our liquidity and capital needs for at least the next 12 months. As of May 30, 2021, our total debt, including the impact of derivative instruments designated as hedges, was 88 percent in fixed-rate and 12 percent in floating-rate instruments, compared to 87 percent in fixed-rate and 13 percent in floating-rate instruments on May 31, 2020. Our net debt to operating cash flow ratio increased to 3.7 in fiscal 2021 from 3.2 in fiscal 2020, primarily driven by a decrease in cash provided by operations. Our net debt-to-adjusted EBITDA ratio declined to 2.9 in fiscal 2021 from 3.2 in fiscal 2020 (see the “Non-GAAP Measures” section below for our use of this measure not defined by GAAP). We have a 51 percent controlling interest in Yoplait SAS and a 50 percent interest in Yoplait Marques SNC and Liberté Marques Sàrl. Sodiaal International (Sodiaal) holds the remaining interests in each of these entities. We consolidate these entities into our consolidated financial statements. We record Sodiaal’s 50 percent interest in Yoplait Marques SNC and Liberté Marques Sàrl as noncontrolling interests, and its 49 percent interest in Yoplait SAS as a redeemable interest on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. These euro- and Canadian dollar-denominated interests are reported in U.S. dollars on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Sodiaal has the ability to put all or a portion of its redeemable interest to us at fair value once per year, up to three times before December 2024. As of May 30, 2021, the redemption value of the redeemable interest was $605 million which approximates its fair value. In March 2021, we entered into a non-binding memorandum of understanding to sell our 51 percent controlling interest in our European Yoplait business to Sodiaal. As part of the proposed transaction, we would obtain Sodiaal’s 49 percent ownership interest in our Canadian yogurt business, making the Canadian yogurt business a wholly owned subsidiary. The proposed transaction would be anticipated to close in fiscal 2022, subject to labor consultations, regulatory filings, and other customary closing conditions. The third-party holder of the General Mills Cereals, LLC (GMC) Class A Interests receives quarterly preferred distributions from available net income based on the application of a floating preferred return rate to the holder’s capital account balance established in the most recent mark-to-market valuation (currently $252 million). On June 1, 2021, the floating preferred return rate on GMC’s Class A Interests was reset to the sum of three-month LIBOR plus 160 basis points. The preferred return rate is adjusted every three years through a negotiated agreement with the Class A Interest holder or through a remarketing auction. We have an option to purchase the Class A Interests for consideration equal to the then current capital account value, plus any unpaid preferred return and the prescribed make-whole amount. If we purchase these interests, any change in the third-party holder’s capital account from its original value will be charged directly to retained earnings and will increase or decrease the net earnings used to calculate EPS in that period. 28 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES For a complete description of our significant accounting policies, please see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. Our critical accounting estimates are those that have a meaningful impact on the reporting of our financial condition and results of operations. These estimates include our accounting for revenue recognition, valuation of long-lived assets, intangible assets, redeemable interest, stock-based compensation, income taxes, and defined benefit pension, other postretirement benefit, and postemployment benefit plans. Considerations related to the COVID-19 pandemic The continuing impact that the recent COVID-19 pandemic will have on our consolidated results of operations is uncertain. We saw increased orders from retail customers across all geographies in response to increased consumer demand for food at home. We also experienced a COVID-19-related decrease in consumer traffic in away-from-home food outlets. In fiscal 2022, we expect at-home food demand will decline year over year across most of our core markets though will remain above pre-pandemic levels. Conversely, we expect away-from home food demand to continue to recover, though not fully to pre-pandemic levels. We expect one of the largest factors impacting our performance will be relative balance of at-home versus away-from-home consumer food demand, primarily driven by the level of virus control in markets around the world, which remains uncertain. We have considered the potential impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic in our significant accounting estimates as of May 30, 2021, and will continue to evaluate the nature and extent of the impact to our business and consolidated results of operations. Revenue Recognition Our revenues are reported net of variable consideration and consideration payable to our customers, including trade promotion, consumer coupon redemption and other reductions to the transaction price, including estimated allowances for returns, unsalable product, and prompt pay discounts. Trade promotions are recorded using significant judgment of estimated participation and performance levels for offered programs at the time of sale. Differences between the estimated and actual reduction to the transaction price are recognized as a change in estimate in a subsequent period. Our accrued trade and coupon promotion liabilities were $508 million as of May 30, 2021, and $471 million as of May 31, 2020. Because these amounts are significant, if our estimates are inaccurate we would have to make adjustments in subsequent periods that could have a significant effect on our results of operations. Valuation of Long-Lived Assets We estimate the useful lives of long-lived assets and make estimates concerning undiscounted cash flows to review for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset (or asset group) may not be recoverable. Fair value is measured using discounted cash flows or independent appraisals, as appropriate. Intangible Assets Goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets are not subject to amortization and are tested for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. Our estimates of fair value for goodwill impairment testing are determined based on a discounted cash flow model. We use inputs from our long-range planning process to determine growth rates for sales and profits. We also make estimates of discount rates, perpetuity growth assumptions, market comparables, and other factors. We evaluate the useful lives of our other intangible assets, mainly brands, to determine if they are finite or indefinite-lived. Reaching a determination on useful life requires significant judgments and assumptions regarding the future effects of obsolescence, demand, competition, other economic factors (such as the stability of the industry, known technological advances, legislative action that results in an uncertain or changing regulatory environment, and expected changes in distribution channels), the level of required maintenance expenditures, and the expected lives of other related groups of assets. Intangible assets that are deemed to have finite lives are amortized on a straight-line basis over their useful lives, generally ranging from 4 to 30 years. Our estimate of the fair value of our brand assets is based on a discounted cash flow model using inputs which include projected revenues from our long-range plan, assumed royalty rates that could be payable if we did not own the brands, and a discount rate. As of May 30, 2021, we had $21 billion of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets. While we currently believe that the fair value of each intangible exceeds its carrying value and that those intangibles will contribute indefinitely to our cash flows, materially different assumptions regarding future performance of our businesses or a different weighted-average cost of capital could result in material impairment losses and amortization expense. We performed our fiscal 2021 assessment of our intangible assets as of the first day of the second quarter of fiscal 2021, and we determined there was no impairment of our intangible assets as their related fair values were substantially in excess of the carrying values. While having significant coverage as of our fiscal 2021 assessment date, the Europe & Australia reporting unit and the Progresso, Green Giant, and EPIC brand intangible assets had risk of decreasing coverage. We will continue to monitor these businesses for potential impairment. 29 Redeemable Interest The significant assumptions used to estimate the redemption value of the redeemable interest include projected revenue growth and profitability from our long-range plan, capital spending, depreciation and taxes, foreign currency exchange rates, and a discount rate. As of May 30, 2021, the redemption value of the redeemable interest was $605 million. Stock-based Compensation The valuation of stock options is a significant accounting estimate that requires us to use judgments and assumptions that are likely to have a material impact on our financial statements. Annually, we make predictive assumptions regarding future stock price volatility, employee exercise behavior, dividend yield, and the forfeiture rate. For more information on these assumptions, please see Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. The estimated fair values of stock options granted and the assumptions used for the Black-Scholes option-pricing model were as follows: The risk-free interest rate for periods during the expected term of the options is based on the U.S. Treasury zero-coupon yield curve in effect at the time of grant. An increase in the expected term by 1 year, leaving all other assumptions constant, would increase the grant date fair value by less than 1 percent. If all other assumptions are held constant, a one percentage point increase in our fiscal 2021 volatility assumption would increase the grant date fair value of our fiscal 2021 option awards by 7 percent. To the extent that actual outcomes differ from our assumptions, we are not required to true up grant-date fair value-based expense to final intrinsic values. Historical data has a significant bearing on our forward-looking assumptions. Significant variances between actual and predicted experience could lead to prospective revisions in our assumptions, which could then significantly impact the year-over-year comparability of stock-based compensation expense. Any corporate income tax benefit realized upon exercise or vesting of an award in excess of that previously recognized in earnings (referred to as a windfall tax benefit) is presented in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows as an operating cash flow. The actual impact on future years’ cash flows will depend, in part, on the volume of employee stock option exercises during a particular year and the relationship between the exercise-date market value of the underlying stock and the original grant-date fair value previously determined for financial reporting purposes. Realized windfall tax benefits and shortfall tax deficiencies related to the exercise or vesting of stock-based awards are recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. Because employee stock option exercise behavior is not within our control, it is possible that significantly different reported results could occur if different assumptions or conditions were to prevail. Income Taxes We apply a more-likely-than-not threshold to the recognition and derecognition of uncertain tax positions. Accordingly, we recognize the amount of tax benefit that has a greater than 50 percent likelihood of being ultimately realized upon settlement. Future changes in judgment related to the expected ultimate resolution of uncertain tax positions will affect earnings in the period of such change. For more information on income taxes, please see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. Defined Benefit Pension, Other Postretirement Benefit, and Postemployment Benefit Plans We have defined benefit pension plans covering many employees in the United States, Canada, Switzerland, France, and the United Kingdom. We also sponsor plans that provide health care benefits to many of our retirees in the United States, Canada, and Brazil. Under certain circumstances, we also provide accruable benefits, primarily severance, to former and inactive employees in the United States, Canada, and Mexico. Please see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for a description of our defined benefit pension, other postretirement benefit, and postemployment benefit plans. We recognize benefits provided during retirement or following employment over the plan participants’ active working lives. Accordingly, we make various assumptions to predict and measure costs and obligations many years prior to the settlement of our obligations. Assumptions that require significant management judgment and have a material impact on the measurement of our net 30 periodic benefit expense or income and accumulated benefit obligations include the long-term rates of return on plan assets, the interest rates used to discount the obligations for our benefit plans, and health care cost trend rates. Expected Rate of Return on Plan Assets Our expected rate of return on plan assets is determined by our asset allocation, our historical long-term investment performance, our estimate of future long-term returns by asset class (using input from our actuaries, investment services, and investment managers), and long-term inflation assumptions. We review this assumption annually for each plan; however, our annual investment performance for one particular year does not, by itself, significantly influence our evaluation. Our historical investment returns (compound annual growth rates) for our United States defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets were 11.4 percent, 10.8 percent, 9.3 percent, 8.0 percent, and 8.3 percent for the 1, 5, 10, 15, and 20 year periods ended May 30, 2021. On a weighted-average basis, the expected rate of return for all defined benefit plans was 5.72 percent for fiscal 2021, 6.95 percent for fiscal 2020, and 7.25 percent for fiscal 2019. For fiscal 2022, we increased our weighted-average expected rate of return on plan assets for our principal defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans in the United States to 5.96 percent due to expected long-term asset returns. Lowering the expected long-term rate of return on assets by 100 basis points would increase our net pension and postretirement expense by $72 million for fiscal 2022. A market-related valuation basis is used to reduce year-to-year expense volatility. The market-related valuation recognizes certain investment gains or losses over a five-year period from the year in which they occur. Investment gains or losses for this purpose are the difference between the expected return calculated using the market-related value of assets and the actual return based on the market-related value of assets. Our outside actuaries perform these calculations as part of our determination of annual expense or income. Discount Rates We estimate the service and interest cost components of the net periodic benefit expense for our United States and most of our international defined benefit pension, other postretirement benefit, and postemployment benefit plans utilizing a full yield curve approach by applying the specific spot rates along the yield curve used to determine the benefit obligation to the relevant projected cash flows. Our discount rate assumptions are determined annually as of May 31 for our defined benefit pension, other postretirement benefit, and postemployment benefit plan obligations. We work with our outside actuaries to determine the timing and amount of expected future cash outflows to plan participants and, using the Aa Above Median corporate bond yield, to develop a forward interest rate curve, including a margin to that index based on our credit risk. This forward interest rate curve is applied to our expected future cash outflows to determine our discount rate assumptions. Our weighted-average discount rates were as follows: Lowering the discount rates by 100 basis points would increase our net defined benefit pension, other postretirement benefit, and postemployment benefit plan expense for fiscal 2022 by approximately $54 million. All obligation-related experience gains and losses are amortized using a straight-line method over the average remaining service period of active plan participants or over the average remaining lifetime of the remaining plan participants if the plan is viewed as “all or almost all” inactive participants. Health Care Cost Trend Rates We review our health care cost trend rates annually. Our review is based on data we collect about our health care claims experience and information provided by our actuaries. This information includes recent plan experience, plan design, overall industry experience 31 and projections, and assumptions used by other similar organizations. Our initial health care cost trend rate is adjusted as necessary to remain consistent with this review, recent experiences, and short-term expectations. Our initial health care cost trend rate assumption is 6.3 percent for retirees age 65 and over and 6.0 percent for retirees under age 65 at the end of fiscal 2021. Rates are graded down annually until the ultimate trend rate of 4.5 percent is reached in 2029 for all retirees. The trend rates are applicable for calculations only if the retirees’ benefits increase as a result of health care inflation. The ultimate trend rate is adjusted annually, as necessary, to approximate the current economic view on the rate of long-term inflation plus an appropriate health care cost premium. Assumed trend rates for health care costs have an important effect on the amounts reported for the other postretirement benefit plans. Any arising health care claims cost-related experience gain or loss is recognized in the calculation of expected future claims. Once recognized, experience gains and losses are amortized using a straight-line method over the average remaining service period of active plan participants or over the average remaining lifetime of the remaining plan participants if the plan is viewed as “all or almost all” inactive participants. Financial Statement Impact In fiscal 2021, we recorded net defined benefit pension, other postretirement benefit, and postemployment benefit plan expense of $4 million compared to $2 million of income in fiscal 2020 and $24 million of expense in fiscal 2019. As of May 30, 2021, we had cumulative unrecognized actuarial net losses of $2 billion on our defined benefit pension plans and cumulative unrecognized actuarial net gains of $179 million on our postretirement and postemployment benefit plans, mainly as the result of liability increases from lower interest rates, partially offset by recent increases in the values of plan assets. These unrecognized actuarial net losses will result in increases in our future pension and postretirement benefit expenses because they currently exceed the corridors defined by GAAP. Actual future net defined benefit pension, other postretirement benefit, and postemployment benefit plan income or expense will depend on investment performance, changes in future discount rates, changes in health care cost trend rates, and other factors related to the populations participating in these plans. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS In March 2020, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued optional accounting guidance for a limited period of time to ease the potential burden in accounting for reference rate reform. The new standard provides expedients and exceptions to existing accounting requirements for contract modifications and hedge accounting related to transitioning from discontinued reference rates, such as LIBOR, to alternative reference rates, if certain criteria are met. The new accounting requirements can be applied as of the beginning of the interim period including March 12, 2020, or any date thereafter, through December 31, 2022. We are in the process of reviewing our contracts and arrangements that will be affected by a discontinued reference rate and are analyzing the impact of this guidance on our results of operations and financial position. NON-GAAP MEASURES We have included in this report measures of financial performance that are not defined by GAAP. We believe that these measures provide useful information to investors and include these measures in other communications to investors. For each of these non-GAAP financial measures, we are providing below a reconciliation of the differences between the non-GAAP measure and the most directly comparable GAAP measure, an explanation of why we believe the non-GAAP measure provides useful information to investors, and any additional material purposes for which our management or Board of Directors uses the non-GAAP measure. These non-GAAP measures should be viewed in addition to, and not in lieu of, the comparable GAAP measure. Several measures below are presented on an adjusted basis. The adjustments are either items resulting from infrequently occurring events or items that, in management’s judgment, significantly affect the year-to-year assessment of operating results. Organic Net Sales Growth Rates We provide organic net sales growth rates for our consolidated net sales and segment net sales. This measure is used in reporting to our Board of Directors and executive management and as a component of the measurement of our performance for incentive compensation purposes. We believe that organic net sales growth rates provide useful information to investors because they provide transparency to underlying performance in our net sales by excluding the effect that foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, as well as acquisitions, divestitures, and a 53 rd week, when applicable, have on year-to-year comparability. A reconciliation of these measures to reported net sales growth rates, the relevant GAAP measures, are included in our Consolidated Results of Operations and Results of Segment Operations discussions in the MD&A above. 32 Adjusted Operating Profit Growth on a Constant-currency Basis This measure is used in reporting to our Board of Directors and executive management and as a component of the measurement of our performance for incentive compensation purposes. We believe that this measure provides useful information to investors because it is the operating profit measure we use to evaluate operating profit performance on a comparable year-to-year basis. Additionally, the measure is evaluated on a constant-currency basis by excluding the effect that foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations have on year-to-year comparability given the volatility in foreign currency exchange rates. Our adjusted operating profit growth on a constant-currency basis is calculated as follows: Note: Table may not foot due to rounding. (a) Restructuring charges related to actions designed to better align our organizational structure and resources with strategic initiatives, Asia & Latin America route-to-market and supply chain optimization actions, and previously announced restructuring actions in fiscal 2021. Restructuring and project-related charges for previously announced restructuring actions in fiscal 2020. Please see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. (b) Net mark-to-market valuation of certain commodity positions recognized in unallocated corporate items. Please see Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. (c) Valuation adjustments and the gain on sale of certain corporate investments in fiscal 2021. Valuation adjustments and the loss on sale of certain corporate investments in fiscal 2020. (d) Divestiture loss from the sale of our Laticínios Carolina business in Brazil. Please see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. (e) Transaction costs related to our non-binding memorandum of understanding to sell our 51 percent controlling interest in our European Yoplait business and transaction costs related to our planned acquisition of Tyson Foods’ pet treats business. (f) Gain related to Brazil indirect tax item. (g) Net product recall adjustment related to our international Green Giant business in fiscal 2021. Product recall costs related to our international Green Giant business in fiscal 2020. 33 Adjusted Diluted EPS and Related Constant-currency Growth Rate This measure is used in reporting to our Board of Directors and executive management. We believe that this measure provides useful information to investors because it is the profitability measure we use to evaluate earnings performance on a comparable year-to-year basis. The reconciliation of our GAAP measure, diluted EPS, to adjusted diluted EPS and the related constant-currency growth rate follows: Note: Table may not foot due to rounding. (a) Restructuring charges related to actions designed to better align our organizational structure and resources with strategic initiatives, Asia & Latin America route-to-market and supply chain optimization actions, and previously announced restructuring actions in fiscal 2021. Restructuring charges for previously announced restructuring actions in fiscal 2020. Please see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. (b) Net mark-to-market valuation of certain commodity positions recognized in unallocated corporate items. Please see Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. (c) Valuation adjustments and the gain on sale of certain corporate investments. (d) Our 51 percent share of the divestiture loss from the sale of our Laticínios Carolina business in Brazil. Please see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. (e) Tax item related to amendments to reorganize certain U.S. retiree health and welfare benefit plans in fiscal 2021. Discrete tax benefit related to the reorganization of certain wholly owned subsidiaries in fiscal 2020. Please see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. (f) Transaction costs related to our non-binding memorandum of understanding to sell our 51 percent controlling interest in our European Yoplait business and our planned acquisition of Tyson Foods’ pet treats business. (g) Gain related to Brazil indirect tax item. (h) Product recall costs related to our international Green Giant business in fiscal 2020. (i) CPW restructuring charges related to previously announced restructuring actions. See our reconciliation below of the effective income tax rate as reported to the adjusted effective income tax rate for the tax impact of each item affecting comparability. 34 Free Cash Flow Conversion Rate We believe this measure provides useful information to investors because it is important for assessing our efficiency in converting earnings to cash and returning cash to shareholders. The calculation of free cash flow conversion rate and net cash provided by operating activities conversion rate, its equivalent GAAP measure, follows: In Millions Fiscal 2021 Net earnings, including earnings attributable to redeemable and noncontrolling interests, as reported $ 2,346.0 Restructuring charges, net of tax (a) 137.2 Mark-to-market effects, net of tax (b) (106.9) Investment activity, net, net of tax (c) (60.8) Divestiture loss, net of tax (d) 53.1 Tax item (e) 11.2 Transaction costs, net of tax (f) 7.2 Non-income tax gain, net of tax (g) (5.8) Product recall adjustment, net, net of tax (h) (3.1) CPW restructuring charges, net of tax (i) 1.9 Adjusted net earnings, including earnings attributable to redeemable and noncontrolling interests $ 2,380.1 Net cash provided by operating activities 2,983.2 Purchases of land, buildings, and equipment (530.8) Free cash flow $ 2,452.4 Net cash provided by operating activities conversion rate 127% Free cash flow conversion rate 103% Note: Table may not foot due rounding. (a) Restructuring charges related to actions designed to better align our organizational structure and resources with strategic initiatives, Asia & Latin America route-to-market and supply chain optimization actions, and previously announced restructuring actions. Please see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. (b) Net mark-to-market valuation of certain commodity positions recognized in unallocated corporate items. Please see Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. (c) Valuation adjustments and the gain on sale of certain corporate investments. (d) Divestiture loss from the sale of our Laticínios Carolina business in Brazil. Please see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. (e) Tax item related to amendments to reorganize certain U.S. retiree health and welfare benefit plans. (f) Transaction costs related to our non-binding memorandum of understanding to sell our 51 percent controlling interest in our European Yoplait business and our planned acquisition of Tyson Foods’ pet treats business. (g) Gain related to Brazil indirect tax item. (h) Net product recall adjustment related to our international Green Giant business. (i) CPW restructuring charges related to previously announced restructuring actions. See our reconciliation below of the effective income tax rate as reported to the adjusted effective income tax rate for the tax impact of each item affecting comparability. 35 Net Debt-to-Adjusted Earnings before Net Interest, Income Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA) Ratio We believe that this measure provides useful information to investors because it is an indicator of our ability to incur additional debt and to service our existing debt. The reconciliation of adjusted EBITDA to net earnings, including earnings attributable to redeemable and noncontrolling interests, its GAAP equivalent, as well as the calculation of the net debt-to-adjusted EBITDA ratio are as follows: Note: Table may not foot due to rounding. (a) Notes payable and long-term debt, including current portion. (b) Restructuring charges related to actions designed to better align our organizational structure and resources with strategic initiatives, Asia & Latin America route-to-market and supply chain optimization actions, and previously announced restructuring actions in fiscal 2021. Restructuring and project-related charges for previously announced restructuring actions in fiscal 2020. Please see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. (c) Net mark-to-market valuation of certain commodity positions recognized in unallocated corporate items. Please see Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. (d) Valuation adjustments and the gain on sale of certain corporate investments in fiscal 2021. Valuation adjustments and the loss on sale of certain corporate investments in fiscal 2020. (e) Divestiture loss from the sale of our Laticínios Carolina business in Brazil. Please see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. (f) Transaction costs related to our non-binding memorandum of understanding to sell our 51 percent controlling interest in our European Yoplait business and our planned acquisition of Tyson Foods’ pet treats business. (g) Gain related to Brazil indirect tax item. (h) Net product recall adjustment related to our international Green Giant business in fiscal 2021. Product recall costs related to our international Green Giant business in fiscal 2020. 36 Adjusted Operating Profit as a Percent of Net Sales (Adjusted Operating Profit Margin) We believe this measure provides useful information to investors because it is important for assessing our operating profit margin on a comparable year-to-year basis. Our adjusted operating profit margins are calculated as follows: Note: Table may not foot due to rounding. (a) Restructuring charges related to actions designed to better align our organizational structure and resources with strategic initiatives, Asia & Latin America route-to-market and supply chain optimization actions, and previously announced restructuring actions in fiscal 2021. Restructuring and project-related charges for previously announced restructuring actions in fiscal 2020. Please see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. (b) Net mark-to-market valuation of certain commodity positions recognized in unallocated corporate items. Please see Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. (c) Valuation adjustments and the gain on sale of certain corporate investments in fiscal 2021. Valuation adjustments and the loss on sale of certain corporate investments in fiscal 2020. (d) Divestiture loss from the sale of our Laticínios Carolina business in Brazil. Please see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. (e) Transaction costs related to our non-binding memorandum of understanding to sell our 51 percent controlling interest in our European Yoplait business and our planned acquisition of Tyson Foods’ pet treats business. (f) Gain related to Brazil indirect tax item. (g) Net product recall adjustment related to our international Green Giant business in fiscal 2021. Product recall costs related to our international Green Giant business in fiscal 2020. 37 Adjusted Effective Income Tax Rates We believe this measure provides useful information to investors because it presents the adjusted effective income tax rate on a comparable year-to-year basis. Adjusted effective income tax rates are calculated as follows: Note: Table may not foot due to rounding. (a) Earnings before income taxes and after-tax earnings from joint ventures. (b) Restructuring charges related to actions designed to better align our organizational structure and resources with strategic initiatives, Asia & Latin America route-to-market and supply chain optimization actions, and previously announced restructuring actions in fiscal 2021. Restructuring and project-related charges for previously announced restructuring actions in fiscal 2020. Please see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. (c) Net mark-to-market valuation of certain commodity positions recognized in unallocated corporate items. Please see Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. (d) Valuation adjustments and the gain on sale of certain corporate investments in fiscal 2021. Valuation adjustments and the loss on sale of certain corporate investments in fiscal 2020. (e) Divestiture loss from the sale of our Laticínios Carolina business in Brazil. Please see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. (f) Tax item related to amendments to reorganize certain U.S. retiree health and welfare benefit plans in fiscal 2021. Discrete tax benefit related to the reorganization of certain wholly owned subsidiaries in fiscal 2020. Please see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. (g) Transaction costs related to our non-binding memorandum of understanding to sell our 51 percent controlling interest in our European Yoplait business and our planned acquisition of Tyson Foods’ pet treats business. (h) Gain related to Brazil indirect tax item. (i) Net product recall adjustment related to our international Green Giant business in fiscal 2021. Product recall costs related to our international Green Giant business in fiscal 2020. 38 Constant-currency After-Tax Earnings from Joint Ventures Growth Rate We believe that this measure provides useful information to investors because it provides transparency to underlying performance of our joint ventures by excluding the effect that foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations have on year-to-year comparability given volatility in foreign currency exchange markets. After-tax earnings from joint ventures growth rate on a constant-currency basis are calculated as follows: Fiscal 2021 Percentage change in after-tax earnings from joint ventures as reported 29 % Impact of foreign currency exchange 3 pts Percentage change in after-tax earnings from joint ventures on a constant-currency basis 26 % Note: Table may not foot due to rounding. Net Sales Growth Rate for Canada Operating Unit on a Constant-currency Basis We believe this measure of our Canada operating unit net sales provides useful information to investors because it provides transparency to the underlying performance for the Canada operating unit within our North America Retail segment by excluding the effect that foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations have on year-to-year comparability given volatility in foreign currency exchange markets. Net sales growth rate for our Canada operating unit on a constant-currency basis is calculated as follows: Fiscal 2021 Percentage change in net sales as reported 6 % Impact of foreign currency exchange 4 pts Percentage change in net sales on a constant-currency basis 3 % Note: Table may not foot due to rounding. Constant-currency Segment Operating Profit Growth Rates We believe that this measure provides useful information to investors because it provides transparency to underlying performance of our segments by excluding the effect that foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations have on year-to-year comparability given volatility in foreign currency exchange markets. Our segments’ operating profit growth rates on a constant-currency basis are calculated as follows: Fiscal 2021 Percentage Change in Operating Profit as Reported Impact of Foreign Currency Exchange Percentage Change in Operating Profit on Constant-Currency Basis North America Retail Flat Flat Flat Europe & Australia 33 % 9 pts 24 % Pet 6 % Flat 6 % Note: Table may not foot due to rounding. Forward-Looking Financial Measures Our fiscal 2022 outlook for organic net sales growth, constant-currency adjusted operating profit, adjusted diluted EPS, and free cash flow are non-GAAP financial measures that exclude, or have otherwise been adjusted for, items impacting comparability, including the effect of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, restructuring charges and project-related costs, acquisition transaction and integration costs, acquisitions, divestitures, and mark-to-market effects. We are not able to reconcile these forward-looking non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable forward-looking GAAP financial measures without unreasonable efforts because we are unable to predict with a reasonable degree of certainty the actual impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices or the timing or impact of acquisitions, divestitures, and restructuring actions throughout fiscal 2022. The unavailable information could have a significant impact on our fiscal 2022 GAAP financial results. 39 For fiscal 2022, we currently expect: foreign currency exchange rates (based on a blend of forward and forecasted rates and hedge positions) and divestitures completed prior to fiscal 2022 to have an immaterial impact on net sales growth; foreign currency exchange rates to have an immaterial impact on adjusted operating profit and adjusted diluted EPS growth; and restructuring charges and project-related costs related to actions previously announced to total approximately $10 million to $60 million. Our fiscal 2022 guidance does not incorporate the potential impacts of any acquisitions and divestitures that have not yet been completed. 40 CAUTIONARY STATEMENT RELEVANT TO FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION FOR THE PURPOSE OF “SAFE HARBOR” PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 This report contains or incorporates by reference forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that are based on our current expectations and assumptions. We also may make written or oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in our filings with the SEC and in our reports to shareholders. The words or phrases “will likely result,” “are expected to,” “will continue,” “is anticipated,” “estimate,” “plan,” “project,” or similar expressions identify “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results and those currently anticipated or projected. We wish to caution you not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements. In connection with the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we are identifying important factors that could affect our financial performance and could cause our actual results in future periods to differ materially from any current opinions or statements. Our future results could be affected by a variety of factors, such as: the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, suppliers, consumers, customers, and employees; disruptions or inefficiencies in the supply chain, including any impact of the COVID-19 pandemic; competitive dynamics in the consumer foods industry and the markets for our products, including new product introductions, advertising activities, pricing actions, and promotional activities of our competitors; economic conditions, including changes in inflation rates, interest rates, tax rates, or the availability of capital; product development and innovation; consumer acceptance of new products and product improvements; consumer reaction to pricing actions and changes in promotion levels; acquisitions or dispositions of businesses or assets, changes in capital structure; changes in the legal and regulatory environment, including tax legislation, labeling and advertising regulations, and litigation; impairments in the carrying value of goodwill, other intangible assets, or other long-lived assets, or changes in the useful lives of other intangible assets; changes in accounting standards and the impact of significant accounting estimates; product quality and safety issues, including recalls and product liability; changes in consumer demand for our products; effectiveness of advertising, marketing, and promotional programs; changes in consumer behavior, trends, and preferences, including weight loss trends; consumer perception of health-related issues, including obesity; consolidation in the retail environment; changes in purchasing and inventory levels of significant customers; fluctuations in the cost and availability of supply chain resources, including raw materials, packaging, energy, and transportation; effectiveness of restructuring and cost saving initiatives; volatility in the market value of derivatives used to manage price risk for certain commodities; benefit plan expenses due to changes in plan asset values and discount rates used to determine plan liabilities; failure or breach of our information technology systems; foreign economic conditions, including currency rate fluctuations; and political unrest in foreign markets and economic uncertainty due to terrorism or war. You should also consider the risk factors that we identify in Item 1A of this report, which could also affect our future results. We undertake no obligation to publicly revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of those statements or to reflect the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events.