 PART I ITEM 1 - Business COMPANY OVERVIEW We are a leading global manufacturer and marketer of branded consumer foods sold through retail stores. We also are a leading supplier of branded and unbranded food products to the North American foodservice and commercial baking industries. We are also a leading manufacturer and marketer in the wholesome natural pet food category. We manufacture our products in 13 countries and market them in more than 100 countries. In addition to our consolidated operations, we have 50 percent interests in two strategic joint ventures that manufacture and market food products sold in more than 120 countries worldwide. We manage and review the financial results of our business under five operating segments: North America Retail; Convenience Stores & Foodservice; Europe & Australia; Asia & Latin America; and Pet. See Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) in Item 7 of this report for a description of our segments. We offer a variety of food products that provide great taste, nutrition, convenience, and value for consumers around the world. Our business is focused on the following large, global categories:  snacks, including grain, fruit and savory snacks, nutrition bars, and frozen hot snacks;  ready-to-eat cereal;  convenient meals, including meal kits, ethnic meals, pizza, soup, side dish mixes, frozen breakfast, and frozen entrees;  yogurt;  wholesome natural pet food;  super-premium ice cream;  baking mixes and ingredients; and  refrigerated and frozen dough. Our Cereal Partners Worldwide (CPW) joint venture with Nestlé S.A. (Nestlé) competes in the ready-to-eat cereal category in markets outside North America, and our Häagen-Dazs Japan, Inc. (HDJ) joint venture competes in the super-premium ice cream category in Japan. For net sales contributed by each class of similar products, please see Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. The terms “General Mills,” “Company,” “registrant,” “we,” “us,” and “our” mean General Mills, Inc. and all subsidiaries included in the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report unless the context indicates otherwise. Certain terms used throughout this report are defined in a glossary in Item 8 of this report. Customers Our primary customers are grocery stores, mass merchandisers, membership stores, natural food chains, drug, dollar and discount chains, e-commerce retailers, commercial and noncommercial foodservice distributors and operators, restaurants, convenience stores, and pet specialty stores. We generally sell to these customers through our direct sales force. We use broker and distribution arrangements for certain products and to serve certain types of customers and certain markets. For further information on our customer credit and product return practices, please refer to Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. During fiscal 2021, Walmart Inc. and its affiliates (Walmart) accounted for 20 percent of our consolidated net sales and 29 percent of net sales of our North America Retail segment. No other customer accounted for 10 percent or more of our consolidated net sales. For further information on significant customers, please refer to Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. Competition The packaged and pet food categories are highly competitive, with numerous manufacturers of varying sizes in the United States and throughout the world. The categories in which we participate also are very competitive. Our principal competitors in these categories are manufacturers, as well as retailers with their own branded products. Competitors market and sell their products through brick-and-mortar stores and e-commerce. All of our principal competitors have substantial financial, marketing, and other resources. Competition in our product categories is based on product innovation, product quality, price, brand recognition and loyalty, effectiveness of marketing, promotional activity, convenient ordering and delivery to the consumer, and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. Our principal strategies for competing in each of our segments include unique consumer insights, effective customer relationships, superior product quality, innovative advertising, product promotion, product innovation aligned with consumers’ needs, an efficient supply chain, and price. In most product categories, we compete not only with other widely advertised, branded products, but also with regional brands and with generic and private label products that are generally sold at lower prices. Internationally, we compete with both multi-national and local manufacturers, and each country includes a unique group of competitors. 4 Raw materials, ingredients, and packaging The principal raw materials that we use are grains (wheat, oats, and corn), dairy products, sugar, fruits, vegetable oils, meats, nuts, vegetables, and other agricultural products. We also use substantial quantities of carton board, corrugated, plastic and metal packaging materials, operating supplies, and energy. Most of these inputs for our domestic and Canadian operations are purchased from suppliers in the United States. In our other international operations, inputs that are not locally available in adequate supply may be imported from other countries. The cost of these inputs may fluctuate widely due to external conditions such as weather, climate change, product scarcity, limited sources of supply, commodity market fluctuations, currency fluctuations, trade tariffs, pandemics (including the COVID-19 pandemic), and changes in governmental agricultural and energy policies and regulations. We have some long-term fixed price contracts, but the majority of our inputs are purchased on the open market. We believe that we will be able to obtain an adequate supply of needed inputs. Occasionally and where possible, we make advance purchases of items significant to our business in order to ensure continuity of operations. Our objective is to procure materials meeting both our quality standards and our production needs at price levels that allow a targeted profit margin. Since these inputs generally represent the largest variable cost in manufacturing our products, to the extent possible, we often manage the risk associated with adverse price movements for some inputs using a variety of risk management strategies. We also have a grain merchandising operation that provides us efficient access to, and more informed knowledge of, various commodity markets, principally wheat and oats. This operation holds physical inventories that are carried at net realizable value and uses derivatives to manage its net inventory position and minimize its market exposures. TRADEMARKS AND PATENTS Our products are marketed under a variety of valuable trademarks. Some of the more important trademarks used in our global operations (set forth in italics in this report) include Annie’s, Betty Crocker, Bisquick, Blue Buffalo, Blue Basics, Blue Freedom, Bugles, Cascadian Farm, Cheerios, Chex, Cinnamon Toast Crunch, Cocoa Puffs, Cookie Crisp, EPIC, Fiber One, Food Should Taste Good, Fruit by the Foot, Fruit Gushers, Fruit Roll-Ups, Gardetto's, Go-Gurt, Gold Medal, Golden Grahams, Häagen-Dazs, Helpers, Jus-Rol, Kitano, Kix, Lärabar, Latina, Liberté, Lucky Charms, Muir Glen, Nature Valley, Oatmeal Crisp, Old El Paso, Oui, Pillsbury, Progresso, Raisin Nut Bran, Total, Totino’s, Trix, Wanchai Ferry, Wheaties, Wilderness, Yoki, and Yoplait. We protect these marks as appropriate through registrations in the United States and other jurisdictions. Depending on the jurisdiction, trademarks are generally valid as long as they are in use or their registrations are properly maintained and they have not been found to have become generic. Registrations of trademarks can also generally be renewed indefinitely for as long as the trademarks are in use. Some of our products are marketed under or in combination with trademarks that have been licensed from others for both long-standing products (e.g., Reese’s Puffs for cereal, Green Giant for vegetables in certain countries, and Cinnabon for refrigerated dough, frozen pastries, and baking products) and shorter term promotional products (e.g., fruit snacks sold under various third party equities). Our cereal trademarks are licensed to CPW and may be used in association with the Nestlé trademark. Nestlé licenses certain of its trademarks to CPW, including the Nestlé and Uncle Toby’s trademarks. The Häagen-Dazs trademark is licensed royalty-free and exclusively to Nestlé and authorized sublicensees for ice cream and other frozen dessert products in the United States and Canada. The Häagen-Dazs trademark is also licensed to HDJ in Japan. The Pillsbury brand and the Pillsbury Doughboy character are subject to an exclusive, royalty-free license that was granted to a third party and its successors in the dessert mix and baking mix categories in the United States and under limited circumstances in Canada and Mexico. The Yoplait trademark and other related trademarks are owned by Yoplait Marques SNC, an entity in which we own a 50 percent interest. The Liberté trademark and other related trademarks are owned by Liberté Marques Sárl, an entity in which we own a 50 percent interest. These marks are licensed exclusively to Yoplait SAS, an entity in which we own a 51 percent interest. Yoplait SAS licenses these trademarks to its franchisees, including General Mills in the United States. We continue our focus on developing and marketing innovative, proprietary products, many of which use proprietary expertise, recipes and formulations. We consider the collective rights under our various patents, which expire from time to time, a valuable asset, but we do not believe that our businesses are materially dependent upon any single patent or group of related patents. SEASONALITY In general, demand for our products is evenly balanced throughout the year. However, within our North America Retail segment demand for refrigerated dough, frozen baked goods, and baking products is stronger in the fourth calendar quarter. Demand for Progresso soup is higher during the fall and winter months. Internationally, within our Europe & Australia and Asia & Latin America segments, demand for Häagen-Dazs ice cream is higher during the summer months and demand for baking mix and dough products increases during winter months. Due to the offsetting impact of these demand trends, as well as the different seasons in the northern and southern hemispheres, our international segments’ net sales are generally evenly balanced throughout the year. 5 QUALITY AND SAFETY REGULATION The manufacture and sale of consumer and pet food products is highly regulated. In the United States, our activities are subject to regulation by various federal government agencies, including the Food and Drug Administration, Department of Agriculture, Federal Trade Commission, Department of Commerce, Occupational Safety and Health Administration, and Environmental Protection Agency, as well as various federal, state, and local agencies relating to the production, packaging, labelling, marketing, storage, distribution, quality, and safety of food and pet products and the health and safety of our employees. Our business is also regulated by similar agencies outside of the United States. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS As of May 30, 2021, we were involved with two response actions associated with the alleged or threatened release of hazardous substances or wastes located in Minneapolis, Minnesota and Moonachie, New Jersey. Our operations are subject to the Clean Air Act, Clean Water Act, Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, and the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, and all similar state, local, and foreign environmental laws and regulations applicable to the jurisdictions in which we operate. Based on current facts and circumstances, we believe that neither the results of our environmental proceedings nor our compliance in general with environmental laws or regulations will have a material adverse effect upon our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position. HUMAN CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Recruiting, developing, engaging, and protecting our workforce is critical to executing our strategy and achieving business success. As of May 30, 2021, we had approximately 35,000 employees around the globe, with approximately 15,000 in the U.S. and approximately 20,000 located in our markets outside of the U.S. Our workforce is divided between approximately 13,000 employees dedicated to the production of our various products and approximately 22,000 non-production employees. The efficient production of high-quality products and successful execution of our strategy requires a talented, skilled, and engaged team of employees. We work to equip our employees with critical skills and expand their contributions over time by providing a range of training and career development opportunities, including hands-on experiences via challenging work assignments and job rotations, coaching and mentoring opportunities, and training programs. To foster employee engagement and commitment, we follow a robust process to listen to employees, take action, and measure our progress with on-going employee conversations, transparent communications, and employee engagement surveys. We believe that fostering a culture of inclusion and belonging strengthens our ability to recruit talent and allows all of our employees to thrive and succeed. We actively cultivate a culture that acknowledges, respects, and values all dimensions of diversity – including gender, race, sexual orientation, ability, backgrounds, and beliefs. Ensuring diversity of input and perspectives is core to our business strategy, and we are committed to recruiting, retaining, developing, and advancing a workforce that reflects the diversity of the consumers we serve. This commitment starts with our company leadership where women represent approximately 41 percent of our officer and director population, and approximately 19 percent of our officers and directors are racially or ethnically diverse. We embed our culture of inclusion and belonging into our day-to-day ways of working through a number of programs to foster discussion, build empathy, and increase understanding. We are committed to maintaining a safe and secure workplace for our employees. We set specific safety standards to identify and manage critical risks. We use global safety management systems and employee training to ensure consistent implementation of safety protocols and accurate measurement and tracking of incidents. To provide a safe and secure working environment for our employees, we prohibit workplace discrimination, and we do not tolerate abusive conduct or harassment. Our attention to the health and safety of our workforce extends to the workers and communities in our supply chain. We believe that respect for human rights is fundamental to our strategy and to our commitment to ethical business conduct. During the COVID-19 pandemic, we implemented an enterprise-wide response to ensure employee safety. In our manufacturing facilities, we enacted social distancing protocols, temperature checks, enhanced sanitation, mask use, and other protective equipment and practices. Our layered protections, combined with robust contact tracing and exclusion protocols, enabled the continued operation of our manufacturing and distribution facilities without significant disruption. During the pandemic, our office staff shifted primarily to working remotely as dictated by local conditions. 6 INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS The section below provides information regarding our executive officers as of July 1, 2021. Richard C. Allendorf, age 60, is General Counsel and Secretary. Mr. Allendorf joined General Mills in 2001 from The Pillsbury Company. He was promoted to Vice President, Deputy General Counsel in 2010, first overseeing the legal affairs of the U.S. Retail segment and Consumer Food Sales and then, in 2012, overseeing the legal affairs of the International segment and Global Ethics and Compliance. He was named to his present position in February 2015. Prior to joining General Mills, he practiced law with the Shearman and Sterling and Mackall, Crounse and Moore law firms. He was in finance with General Electric prior to his legal career. Jodi Benson, age 56, is Chief Innovation, Technology and Quality Officer. Ms. Benson joined General Mills in 2001 from The Pillsbury Company. She held a variety of positions before becoming the leader of our One Global Dairy Platform from 2011 to March 2016. She was named Vice President for our International business segment from April 2016 to March 2017, and Vice President of the Global Innovation, Technology, and Quality Capabilities Group from April 2017 to July 2018. She was named to her current position in August 2018. Kofi A. Bruce, age 51, is Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Bruce joined General Mills in 2009 as Vice President, Treasurer after serving in a variety of senior management positions with Ecolab and Ford Motor Company. He served as Treasurer until 2010 when he was named Vice President, Finance for Yoplait. Mr. Bruce reassumed his role as Vice President, Treasurer from 2012 until 2014 when he was named Vice President, Finance for Convenience Stores & Foodservice. He was named Vice President, Controller in August 2017, Vice President, Financial Operations in September 2019, and to his present position in February 2020. John R. Church, age 55, is Chief Transformation & Enterprise Services Officer. Mr. Church joined General Mills in 1988 as a Product Developer in the Big G cereals division and held various positions before becoming Vice President, Engineering in 2003. In 2005, his role was expanded to include development of the Company’s strategy for the global sourcing of raw materials and manufacturing capabilities. He was named Vice President, Supply Chain Operations in 2007, Senior Vice President, Supply Chain in 2008, Executive Vice President, Supply Chain in 2013, Chief Supply Chain and Global Business Solutions Officer in June 2017, and to his present position in July 2021. Paul J. Gallagher, age 53, is Chief Supply Chain Officer. Mr. Gallagher joined General Mills in April 2019 as Vice President, North America Supply Chain from Diageo plc. He began his career at Diageo where he spent 25 years serving in a variety of leadership roles in manufacturing, procurement, planning, customer service, and engineering before becoming President, North America Supply from 2013 to March 2019. He was named to his current position in July 2021. Jeffrey L. Harmening, age 54, is Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Harmening joined General Mills in 1994 and served in various marketing roles in the Betty Crocker, Yoplait, and Big G cereal divisions. He was named Vice President, Marketing for CPW in 2003 and Vice President of the Big G cereal division in 2007. In 2011, he was promoted to Senior Vice President for the Big G cereal division. Mr. Harmening was appointed Senior Vice President, Chief Executive Officer of CPW in 2012. Mr. Harmening returned from CPW in 2014 and was named Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, U.S. Retail. He became President, Chief Operating Officer in July 2016. He was named Chief Executive Officer in June 2017 and Chairman of the Board in January 2018. Mr. Harmening is a director of The Toro Company. Dana M. McNabb, age 45, is Chief Strategy & Growth Officer. Ms. McNabb joined General Mills in 1999 and held a variety of marketing roles in Cereal, Snacks, Meals, and New Products before becoming Vice President, Marketing for CPW in 2011 and Vice President, Marketing for the Circle of Champions Business Unit in 2015. She became President, U.S. Cereal Operating Unit in December 2016, Group President, Europe & Australia in January 2020, and was named to her present position in July 2021. Jaime Montemayor, age 57, is Chief Digital and Technology Officer. He spent 21 years at PepsiCo, Inc., serving in roles of increasing responsibility, including most recently as Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer of PepsiCo’s Americas Foods segment from 2013 to 2015, and Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer, Digital Innovation, Data and Analytics, PepsiCo from 2015 to 2016. Mr. Montemayor served as Chief Technology Officer of 7-Eleven Inc. from April 2017 until October 2017. He assumed his current role in February 2020 after founding and operating a digital technology consulting company from November 2017 until January 2020. Jon J. Nudi, age 51, is Group President, North America Retail. Mr. Nudi joined General Mills in 1993 as a Sales Representative and held a variety of roles in Consumer Foods Sales. In 2005, he moved into marketing roles in the Meals division and was elected Vice President in 2007. Mr. Nudi was named Vice President; President, Snacks, in 2010, Senior Vice President, President, Europe/Australasia in 2014, and Senior Vice President; President, U.S. Retail in September 2016. He was named to his present position in January 2017. 7 Shawn P. O’Grady, age 57, is Group President, Convenience Stores & Foodservice. Mr. O’Grady joined General Mills in 1990 and held several marketing roles in the Snacks, Meals, and Big G cereal divisions. He was promoted to Vice President in 1998 and held marketing positions in the Betty Crocker and Pillsbury USA divisions. In 2004, he moved into Consumer Foods Sales, becoming Vice President, President, U.S. Retail Sales in 2007, Senior Vice President, President, Consumer Foods Sales Division in 2010, and Senior Vice President, President, Sales & Channel Development in 2012. He was named to his current position in January 2017. Mark A. Pallot, age 48, is Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer. Mr. Pallot joined General Mills in 2007 and served as Director, Financial Reporting until August 2017, when he was named Vice President, Assistant Controller. He was elected to his present position in February 2020. Prior to joining General Mills, Mr. Pallot held accounting and financial reporting positions at Residential Capital, LLC, Metris, Inc., CIT Group Inc., and Ernst & Young, LLP. Bethany Quam, age 50, is Group President, Pet. Ms. Quam joined General Mills in 1993 and held a variety of positions before becoming Vice President, Strategic Planning in 2007. She was promoted to Vice President, Field Sales, Channels in 2012, Vice President; President, Convenience Stores & Foodservice in 2014, and Senior Vice President; President, Europe & Australia in August 2016, and Group President; Europe & Australia in January 2017. She was named to her current position in October 2019. Sean Walker, age 55, is Group President, Asia & Latin America and Europe & Australia. Mr. Walker joined General Mills in 1989 and held a variety of positions before becoming Vice President, President of Latin America in 2009. He was named Senior Vice President, President Latin America in 2012, Senior Vice President, Corporate Strategy in September 2016, and Group President, Asia & Latin America in February 2019. He was named to his current position in July 2021. Jacqueline Williams-Roll, age 52, is Chief Human Resources Officer. Ms. Williams-Roll joined General Mills in 1995. She held human resources leadership roles in Supply Chain, Finance, Marketing, and Organization Effectiveness, and she also worked a large part of her career on businesses outside of the United States. She was named Vice President, Human Resources, International in 2010, and then promoted to Senior Vice President, Human Resources Operations in 2013. She was named to her present position in September 2014. Prior to joining General Mills, she held sales and management roles with Jenny Craig International. WEBSITE ACCESS Our website is https://www.generalmills.com. We make available, free of charge in the “Investors” portion of this website, annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (1934 Act) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). All such filings are available on the SEC’s website at https://www.sec.gov. Reports of beneficial ownership filed pursuant to Section 16(a) of the 1934 Act are also available on our website. 8 ITEM 1A