 Item 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Executive Overview Fiscal 2020: S ales for the year were a record $9.6 billion, a 1 percent increase from last year, as all four business segments delivered sales growth. Organic net sales 1 increased 2 percent. ( 1 See explanation of non-GAAP financial measures in the Consolidated Results section). Due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the last three fiscal quarters of 2020, the Company experienced significant demand shifts from its domestic foodservice business to its domestic retail business. Net sales increased for the year due to higher branded retail sales from all business segments, higher commodity sales in Refrigerated Foods and Jennie-O Turkey Store, and the acquisition of the Sadler's Smokehouse business. These gains offset a dramatic decline in foodservice sales and the impact of the CytoSport divestiture last year. Earnings before tax declined 8 percent, as the Company absorbed approximately $80 million in incremental costs related to the COVID-19 pandemic. The 7 percent decrease in net earnings attributable to the Company was driven by COVID-19 related expenses in addition to the impact of the gain on the CytoSport divestiture last year. Diluted earnings per share for fiscal 2020 were $1.66, an 8 percent decrease compared to $1.80 per share last year. Grocery Products segment profit for the full year increased as improved center store retail sales and favorable product mix more than overcame the divestiture of CytoSport and the benefit from a legal settlement in fiscal 2019. International & Other segment results increased significantly for the full year of fiscal 2020 due to higher income from the Company's partners in the Philippines, South Korea and Europe, branded export growth, and improved results in China. Earnings for the Jennie-O Turkey Store segment deceased primarily due to lower foodservice earnings and increased supply chain costs related to the COVID-19 impacts on manufacturing and live production. Refrigerated Foods segment results declined for the full year as lower foodservice sales and incremental supply chain costs related to COVID-19 more than offset excellent performances from the retail businesses. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company committed to making investments necessary to keep its team members safe. These investments included: enhanced safety procedures across the Company's facilities; providing personal protective equipment for all production team members; frequent disinfecting of high-touch areas; reconfiguration of common areas and workstations; temperature and wellness screenings; revised shift scheduling; reduced production line speeds; new guidelines on carpooling; more extensive social distancing measures throughout each facility; and where possible, providing remote work opportunities and facilitating access to rapid testing for employees. The Company also paid over $11 million in bonuses to full- and part-time plant production team members during the year. Additionally, the Company continued to reinvest into the business through capital expenditures while returning cash back to shareholders in the form of dividends. Capital expenditures were $367.5 million in fiscal 2020. Notable projects included the completion of the Burke pizza toppings plant expansion, significant work on a new dry sausage facility in Nebraska, Project Orion, and many other projects to support growth of branded products. The annual dividend for 2021 will be $0.98 per share and marks the 55th consecutive year of dividend increases, representing an increase of 5 percent. In March, the Company acquired Sadler's Smokehouse for $270.8 million. In June, the Company issued $1.0 billion, ten-year notes at an annual interest rate of 1.8 percent. The proceeds from the offering is expected to provide liquidity and allow the business to take advantage of strategic opportunities. Fiscal 2021 Outlook: We are optimistic about our ability to grow sales and earnings in fiscal 2021. Sales for our retail products is expected to remain strong but not to the level of growth seen in fiscal 2020. Sales momentum for products such as SKIPPY® peanut butter, Herdez® salsas and sauces, Hormel® Black Label® bacon, Applegate® brands, and Jennie-O® lean ground turkey is expected to continue. Key product lines are expected to benefit from structurally higher capacity compared to last year. We anticipate a modest recovery in the foodservice industry but likely not back to 2019 levels. Brands like Hormel® Bacon 1 TM, Hormel® Fire Braised TM, Sadler’s® , and Café H® are well-positioned to grow as the industry recovers. Additional restrictions related to on-premise dining and regional lockdowns could impact the recovery of the foodservice industry. We expect the COVID-19 related higher cost structure in our domestic operations to continue through the first half of fiscal 2021 and for the majority of COVID-19 costs to subside as the pandemic comes under control. The availability of labor to staff our domestic production facilities and higher input costs present risk to our sales and profitability. Barring any unforeseen trade issues, the International & Other segment expects continued growth from the China business and the SPAM® and SKIPPY® brands. Due to consistent cash flow, liquidity, and a strong balance sheet, the Company remains in a position of strength heading into fiscal 2021. We plan to invest our capital to support the growth of the value-added businesses and advertise our numerous iconic brands. We plan to open a new dry sausage facility for the Columbus® brand in the second quarter as well as invest in additional capacity to support our pepperoni business. Additionally, we are committed to returning cash to shareholders in the form of dividends. 14 A detailed review of the Company's fiscal 2020 performance compared to fiscal 2019 appears in following section. A detailed review of the fiscal 2019 performance compared to fiscal 2018 is set forth in Part II, Item 7 of the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 27, 2019 under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” which is incorporated herein by reference. Results of Operations OVERVIEW The Company is a processor of branded and unbranded food products for retail, foodservice, deli, and commercial customers. At the beginning of fiscal 2019, the Company aligned all deli businesses, including the Jennie-O Turkey Store deli division, into Hormel Deli Solutions reporting within the Refrigerated Foods segment. In addition, the ingredients business was realigned from the Grocery Products segment to the Refrigerated Foods segment. Periods presented herein have been recast to reflect these changes. Periods presented have also been adjusted due to the adoption of Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2017-07, Compensation - Retirement Benefits: Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost (Topic 715). See Note A - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies for more information. The Company operates in the following four reportable segments: Segment Business Conducted Grocery Products This segment consists primarily of the processing, marketing, and sale of shelf-stable food products sold predominantly in the retail market, along with the sale of nutritional and private label shelf-stable products to retail, foodservice, and industrial customers. This segment also includes the results from the Company’s MegaMex Foods, LLC (MegaMex) joint venture. Refrigerated Foods This segment consists primarily of the processing, marketing, and sale of branded and unbranded pork, beef, chicken and turkey products for retail, foodservice, deli and, commercial customers. Jennie-O Turkey Store This segment consists primarily of the processing, marketing, and sale of branded and unbranded turkey products for retail, foodservice, and commercial customers. International & Other This segment includes Hormel Foods International, which manufactures, markets and sells Company products internationally. This segment also includes the results from the Company’s international joint ventures and royalty arrangements. The Company’s fiscal year consisted of 52 weeks in fiscal years 2020, 2019, and 2018. Fiscal 2021 will consist of 53 weeks. FISCAL YEARS 2020 AND 2019 CONSOLIDATED RESULTS Net Earnings and Diluted Earnings Per Share 15 Volume and Net Sales (1) COMPARISON OF U.S. GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASUREMENTS The non-GAAP adjusted financial measurements of organic net sales and organic volume are presented to provide investors with additional information to facilitate the comparison of past and present operations. Organic net sales and organic volume are defined as net sales and volume, excluding the impact of acquisitions and divestitures. Organic net sales and organic volume exclude the impacts of the Sadler's Smokehouse acquisition (March 2020) in the Refrigerated Foods segment and the CytoSport divestiture (April 2019) in the Grocery Products, and International & Other segments. The Company believes these non-GAAP financial measurements provide useful information to investors because they are the measurements used to evaluate performance on a comparable year-over-year basis. Non-GAAP measurements are not intended to be a substitute for U.S. GAAP measurements in analyzing financial performance. These non-GAAP measurements are not in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. The tables below show the calculations to reconcile from the GAAP measures to the non-GAAP adjusted measures. Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures 4th Quarter Volume (lbs.) Net Sales Net sales for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020 decreased, as higher sales of whole-birds at Jennie-O Turkey Store, the impact from the Sadler's Smokehouse acquisition, and strong retail sales growth of Applegate® products, Jennie-O® lean ground turkey, Black Label® bacon, and Skippy® peanut butter could not overcome significantly lower enterprise-wide foodservice sales. 16 Full Year Volume (lbs.) Net Sales For fiscal 2020, net sales increased due to higher branded retail sales from all business segments, higher commodity sales in Refrigerated Foods and Jennie-O Turkey Store, and the acquisition of Sadler's Smokehouse. The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and subsequent shift in consumer behavior toward the retail channel led to a dramatic decline in foodservice sales. Net sales were also negatively impacted by the CytoSport divestiture last year. In fiscal 2021, the Company expects net sales growth due to continued momentum from the retail and international channels and a recovery in the foodservice industry. Grocery Products expects strong demand for its branded retail items to continue. The business is expected to benefit from structural capacity improvements on key categories such as canned meats and chili. The International & Other segment expects stronger sales in China and continued growth of SPAM® luncheon meat and Skippy® peanut butter. The retail businesses in Refrigerated Foods should continue to grow, led by the Hormel® Black Label® and Applegate® brands. We expect a recovery in the foodservice industry and growth from the Hormel® Bacon 1 TM, Hormel® Fire Braised TM, Sadler’s® , and Café H® brands. The deli division is expected to continue to grow the Columbus® brand as new capacity comes online. Jennie-O Turkey Store is expecting sales growth from Jennie-O® lean ground turkey and a recovery in foodservice. Cost of Products Sold Cost of products sold for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020 decreased primarily due to lower value-added foodservice sales. Cost of products sold for the full year increased driven by record sales and approximately $80 million of incremental operational costs related to the COVID-19 pandemic. These costs included lower production volumes, employee bonuses, and enhanced safety measures in the Company's facilities. The Company expects to absorb a dditional COVID-19 related operational costs during the first half of fiscal 2021. As the pandemic comes under control, the majority of these costs should subside. Gross Profit Consolidated gross profit as a percentage of net sales for the fourth quarter and full year declined. The mix impact from lower foodservice sales in the Refrigerated Foods and Jennie-O Turkey Store segments and the incremental supply chain costs incurred related to the COVID-19 pandemic were the primary drivers of the decline. 17 In fiscal 2021, h igher sales and improved mix are expected to lead to gross profit expansion. T he Company expects the higher cost structure related to COVID-19 to continue through the first half. Higher raw material input costs present a risk to the Company's profitability. Selling, General, and Administrative (SG&A) SG&A expenses for the fourth quarter increased driven by higher advertising investments in 2020 and lower pension and other employee-related expenses last year. Full year SG&A increased as a result of various factors impacting comparability to last year. These factors included the one-time gain from the divestiture of CytoSport, a partial year of expenses related to CytoSport, and a legal settlement. Advertising investments in the fourth quarter were $29 million, an increase of 14 percent. Advertising investments declined for fiscal 2020 due primarily to the divestiture of CytoSport. In fiscal 2021, the Company intends to continue building brand awareness through advertising investments in key brands such as SPAM® , SKIPPY® , Hormel® chili, Applegate® , Columbus® , Hormel® Black Label® , Hormel® pepperoni and Jennie-O® . Research and development continues to be a vital part of the Company's strategy to extend existing brands and expand into new branded items. Research and development expenses were $8.3 million and $31.9 million for the fiscal 2020 fourth quarter and year, respectively, compared to $8.4 million and $32.5 million for the corresponding periods in fiscal 2019. Equity in Earnings of Affiliates Equity in earnings of affiliates for the fourth quarter and full year of fiscal 2020 declined due to lower earnings from the MegaMex foodservice business. This decline was partially offset by improved performance from the Company's joint venture in the Philippines. The Company accounts for its majority-owned operations under the consolidation method. Investments in which the Company owns a minority interest, and for which there are no other indicators of control, are accounted for under the equity or cost method. These investments, along with receivables from other affiliates, are included in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as investments in and receivables from affiliates. The composition of this line item at October 25, 2020, was as follows: Effective Tax Rate The effective tax rate for fiscal 2020 was impacted by stock-based compensation and state tax settlements. The tax impacts of the CytoSport divestiture and stock-based compensation were the main drivers of the Company's fiscal 2019 effective tax rates for the fourth quarter and fiscal year. For additional information, refer to Note J - Income Taxes. The Company expects the effective tax rate in fiscal 2021 to be between 20.0 and 21.5 percent. 18 Segment Results Net sales and operating profits for each of the Company’s reportable segments are set forth below. The Company is an integrated enterprise, characterized by substantial intersegment cooperation, cost allocations, and sharing of assets. Therefore, the Company does not represent that these segments, if operated independently, would report the operating profit and other financial information shown below. Additional segment financial information can be found in Note P - Segment Reporting. Grocery Products Demand for center store brands remained strong in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, led by growth from brands such as S KIPPY® , Herdez® , and Hormel® Compleats® . Sales for the quarter were impacted by lower inventory levels and production limitations related to the COVID-19 pandemic on certain center store products and lower sales for MegaMex foodservice items. For the full year, net sales increased as growth from many center store brands more than offset the impact from the CytoSport divestiture last year. Segment profit for the fourth quarter increased as improved results across the nut butters portfolio more than offset increased freight expense and lower earnings from our MegaMex foodservice business. Segment profit for the full year increased as improved sales and favorable product mix more than overcame the divestiture of CytoSport and the benefit from a legal settlement in fiscal 2019. Looking ahead to fiscal 2021, Grocery Products expects strong demand for its branded retail items to continue. The business will benefit from structural capacity improvements on key categories such as canned meats and chili. Higher input costs could negatively pressure profitability. Refrigerated Foods For the fourth quarter, retail and deli sales growth from brands such as Applegate® , Hormel® Black Label® , and Columbus® , in addition to the impact from the Sadler’s Smokehouse acquisition did not offset a significant decline in foodservice sales. Sales were impacted by production limitations due to the COVID-19 pandemic and lower inventory levels. Full year sales increased due to strong demand for branded retail products, higher commodity sales and the benefit from the Sadler's Smokehouse acquisition. 19 For the fourth quarter and full year of fiscal 2020, the decline in segment profit was due to lower foodservice sales and incremental supply chain costs related to COVID-19. Fourth quarter segment profit was also negatively impacted by a decrease in commodity profits. In fiscal 2021, Refrigerated Foods is expecting modest growth from the retail businesses and a recovery in foodservice demand. Factors such as limited labor availability and low levels of inventory entering the year may limit the Company's ability to supply product in key categories to meet robust demand. Higher operational costs related to COVID-19 are expected to continue through the first half of the fiscal year. As the pandemic comes under control, the majority of these costs should subside. Jennie-O Turkey Store Fourth quarter volume and sales growth of Jennie-O® lean ground products and whole birds were exceptionally strong. Reduced demand for foodservice and commodity products led to the overall decline in sales. Sales increased for fiscal 2020 as improvements in retail, whole bird, and commodity sales more than offset a dramatic decline in foodservice sales. Lower foodservice earnings and increased supply chain costs related to the COVID-19 pandemic drove the decline in segment profit for the fourth quarter and full year. Jennie-O Turkey Store expects growth from Jennie-O branded retail products, a recovery in the foodservice business, and an improvement in the vertically integrated supply chain. Incremental COVID-19 related costs are expected to persist through the first half of fiscal 2021. As the pandemic comes under control, the majority of these costs should subside. Limited labor availability and higher feed costs for 2021 pose a risk to sales and profitability. International & Other Sales for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020 increased due to strong worldwide demand for SPAM® luncheon meat and growth in China. Results in China were positively impacted by strong demand for branded retail items, such as SKIPPY® peanut butter, and an accelerating recovery in the foodservice channel. Sales for the full year increased on improved results in China and strong international demand for the SPAM® and SKIPPY® brands. The significant increase in segment profit for the fourth quarter was due to improved results in China, higher income from our partners in the Philippines, South Korea, and Europe, and branded export growth. S egment results increased for the full year of fiscal 2020 due to higher income from the Company's partners in the Philippines, South Korea, and Europe, branded export growth, and improved results in China. Looking ahead to 2021, the International & Other segment anticipates growth in China and higher worldwide sales of SPAM® luncheon meat and SKIPPY® peanut butter. Higher input costs pose a risk to business results in China and Brazil. 20 Unallocated Income and Expense The Company does not allocate investment income, interest expense, or interest income to its segments when measuring performance. The Company also retains various other income and unallocated expenses at the corporate level. Equity in Earnings of Affiliates is included in segment profit; however, earnings attributable to the Company’s noncontrolling interests are excluded. These items are included in the segment table for the purpose of reconciling segment results to Earnings Before Income Taxes. Net Unallocated Expense increased for the fourth quarter due to higher interest and employee related expenses. Net Unallocated Expense for fiscal 2020 increased primarily due to one-time benefits in fiscal 2019 associated with the sale of CytoSport, higher selling and employee related expenses, and the impact from a legal settlement in 2019. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash and Cash Equivalents were $1,714.3 million for fiscal 2020 compared to $672.9 million and $459.1 million for 2019 and 2018, respectively. During fiscal 2020, cash provided by operating activities was $1,128.0 million compared to $923.0 million in fiscal 2019, and $1,241.7 million in fiscal 2018. The increase in fiscal 2020 was primarily due effective management of working capital. Cash provided by/(used in) investing activities was $(656.3) million, $220.2 million, and $(1,235.4) million in fiscal 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively. Fiscal 2020 included the acquisition of Sadler's for $270.8 million. In fiscal 2019, the Company received $479.8 million from the sale of CytoSport and $30.6 million from the sale of the Fremont, Nebraska, processing facility. Fiscal 2018 included $857.4 million to purchase Columbus. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2020, 2019, and 2018 were $367.5 million, $293.8 million, and $389.6 million, respectively. Significant projects in fiscal 2020 and 2019 included a new dry sausage facility in Nebraska, the Burke pizza toppings plant expansion, Project Orion, and ongoing investments to support food and employee safety as well as the growth of branded products. Key capital projects in fiscal 2018 included the expansion of value-added capacity at Dold Foods in Kansas and a highly automated whole bird facility in Minnesota. Capital expenditures for fiscal 2021 are estimated to be $350.0 million with the largest projects expected to include completion of the new dry sausage production facility in Nebraska, pepperoni capacity expansion, and Project Orion. Cash provided by financing activities was $566.2 million in fiscal 2020 compared to cash used in financing activities of $926.2 million in fiscal 2019 and cash provided by financing activities of $11.6 million in fiscal 2018. In the third quarter of fiscal 2020, the Company issued ten-year senior notes in an aggregate principal amount of $1.0 billion. The proceeds from the offering provide liquidity and allow the Company to take advantage of strategic opportunities. Cash used in financing activities in fiscal 2019 included repayment of the $375.0 term loan used to fund the acquisition of Columbus and $174.2 million in share repurchases. Cash dividends paid to the Company’s shareholders continues to be an ongoing financing activity for the Company with $487.4 million in dividends paid in fiscal 2020 compared to $437.1 million in fiscal 2019 and $388.1 million in fiscal 2018. The dividend rate was $0.93 per share in fiscal 2020, which reflected an 11.0 percent increase over the fiscal 2019 rate of $0.84 per share. The Company has paid dividends for 369 consecutive quarters. The annual dividend rate for fiscal 2021 was increased 5% percent to $0.98 per share, representing the 55th consecutive annual dividend increase. The Company is required by certain covenants in its debt agreements to maintain specified levels of financial ratios and financial position. As of October 25, 2020, the Company was in compliance with all debt covenants. Despite the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company remains confident in its ability to meet cash flow needs. In addition to providing a return to shareholders through dividends, top priorities for the Company include investments to ensure employee and food safety, growing the business through innovation, and evaluating opportunities for strategic acquisitions. Capital spending to enhance and expand current operations isl also expected to be a significant cash outflow in fiscal 2021. 21 Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments The following table outlines the Company’s future contractual financial obligations as of October 25, 2020, (for additional information regarding these obligations, see Note E - Long-term Debt and Other Borrowing Arrangements and Note M - Commitments and Contingencies): (1) In the normal course of business, the Company commits to purchase fixed quantities of livestock, grain, and raw materials from producers to ensure a steady supply of production inputs. Some of these contracts are based on market prices at the time of delivery, for which the Company has estimated the purchase commitment using current market prices as of October 25, 2020. (2) The Company utilizes grow-out contracts with independent farmers to raise turkeys for the Company. Under these contracts, the turkeys, feed, and other supplies are owned by the Company. The farmers provide the required labor and facilities and receive a fee per pound when the turkeys are delivered. Some of the facilities are sub-leased by the Company to the independent farmers. As of October 25, 2020, the Company had approximately 100 active contracts ranging from one to twenty-five years in duration. The grow-out activity is assumed to continue through the term of these active contracts. Amounts in the table represent the Company’s obligation based on turkeys expected to be delivered from these farmers. (3) See Note E - Long-term Debt and Other Borrowing Arrangements. (4) See Note N - Leases. (5) Other Long-term Liabilities represent payments under the Company’s deferred compensation plans and immaterial other financing arrangements. Excluded from the table above are payments under the Company’s defined benefit pension and other post-retirement benefit plans. (See estimated benefit payments for the next ten fiscal years in Note F - Pension and Other Post-retirement Benefits). (6) As discussed in Note J - Income Taxes, the total liability for unrecognized tax benefits, including interest and penalties, at October 25, 2020, was $29.1 million, which is not included in the table above as the ultimate amount or timing of settlement of the Company's reserves for income taxes cannot be reasonably estimated. The Company believes its financial resources, including a revolving credit facility for $400 million and anticipated funds from operations, will be adequate to meet all current commitments. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of October 25, 2020, the Company had $47.5 million of standby letters of credit issued on its behalf. The standby letters of credit are primarily related to the Company’s self-insured workers compensation programs. However, this amount includes revocable standby letters of credit totaling $3.1 million for obligations of an affiliated party that may arise under workers compensation claims. Letters of credit are not reflected in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. Trademarks References to the Company’s brands or products in italics within this report represent valuable trademarks owned or licensed by Hormel Foods, LLC or other subsidiaries of Hormel Foods Corporation. Critical Accounting Policies This discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based upon the Company's consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP). The preparation of these financial statements requires the Company to make estimates, judgments, and assumptions that can have a meaningful effect on the reporting of consolidated financial statements. See Note A - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies additional information. Critical accounting policies are defined as those reflective of significant judgments, estimates and uncertainties, which may result in materially different results under different assumptions and conditions. As conditions resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic evolve, the Company expects these judgments and estimates may be subject to change, which could materially impact future periods. The Company believes the following are its critical accounting policies: 22 Revenue Recognition: The Company recognizes sales at the point in time when the performance obligation has been satisfied and control of the product has transferred to the customer. Obligations for the Company are usually fulfilled once shipped product is received or picked up by the customer. Revenue is recorded net of applicable provisions for discounts, returns, and allowances. The Company offers various sales incentives to customers and consumers. Incentives offered off-invoice include prompt pay allowances, will call allowances, spoilage allowances and temporary price reductions. These incentives are recognized as reductions of revenue at the time control is transferred. Coupons are used as an incentive for consumers to purchase various products. The coupons reduce revenues at the time they are offered, based on estimated redemption rates. Promotional contracts are performed by customers to promote the Company’s products to consumers. These incentives reduce revenues at the time of performance through direct payments and accrued promotional funds. Accrued promotional funds are unpaid liabilities for promotional contracts in process or completed at the end of a quarter or fiscal year. Promotional contractual accruals are based on agreements with customers for defined performance. The liability relating to these agreements is based on a review of the outstanding contracts on which performance has taken place but which the promotional payments relating to such contracts remain unpaid as of the end of the fiscal year. The level of customer performance and the historical spend rate versus contracted rates are estimates used to determine these liabilities. Inventory Valuation: The Company values inventories at the lower of cost or net realizable value. For pork inventories, when the carcasses are disassembled and transferred from primal processing to various manufacturing departments, the primal values, as adjusted by the Company for product specifications and further processing, become the basis for calculating inventory values. Turkey raw materials are represented by the deboned meat quantities. The Company values these raw materials using a concept referred to as the “meat cost pool.” The meat cost pool is determined by combining the cost to grow turkeys with processing costs, less any net sales revenue from by-products created from the processing and not used in producing Company products. The Company has developed a series of ratios using historical data and current market conditions (which themselves involve estimates and judgment determinations by the Company) to allocate the meat cost pool to each meat component. Substantially all inventoriable expenses, meat, packaging, and supplies are valued by the average cost method. Goodwill and Other Indefinite-Lived Intangibles: Estimating the fair value of the Company’s goodwill reporting units and intangible assets requires significant judgment upon initial valuation. Determining the useful life of an intangible asset also requires judgment. Certain acquired brands are expected to have indefinite lives based on their history and the Company’s intent to continue to support and build the brands. Other acquired assets such as customer relationships, are expected to have determinable useful lives. Indefinite-lived intangible assets are originally recorded at their estimated fair values at the date of acquisition and the residual of the purchase price is recorded to goodwill. Goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets are allocated to the reporting units that will receive the related sales and income. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested annually for impairment, or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. Goodwill In conducting the annual impairment test for goodwill, the Company has the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not (> 50% likelihood) the fair value of any reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If a qualitative assessment determines an impairment is more likely than not, the Company is required to perform a quantitative impairment test. Otherwise, no further analysis is required. Alternatively, the Company may elect to proceed directly to the quantitative impairment test. In conducting a qualitative assessment, the Company analyzes actual and projected growth trends for net sales, gross margin, and segment profit for each reporting unit, as well as historical performance versus plan and the results of prior quantitative tests performed. Additionally, the Company assesses factors that may impact its business, including macroeconomic conditions and the related impact, market-related exposures, plans to market for sale all or a portion of the business, competitive changes, new or discontinued product lines, changes in key personnel, and any potential risks to their projected financial results. If performed, the quantitative goodwill impairment test is performed at the reporting unit level. First, the fair value of each reporting unit is compared to its corresponding carrying value, including goodwill. The fair value of each reporting unit is estimated using discounted cash flow valuations (Level 3), which incorporate assumptions regarding future growth rates, terminal values and discount rates. The estimates and assumptions used consider historical performance and are consistent with the assumptions used in determining future profit plans for each reporting unit, which are approved by the Company’s Board of Directors. If the quantitative assessment results in the carrying value exceeding the fair value of any reporting unit, then the results from the quantitative analysis will be relied upon to determine both the existence and amount of goodwill impairment. An impairment loss will be recognized for the amount by which the reporting unit’s carrying amount exceeds its fair value, not to exceed the carrying amount of goodwill in that reporting unit. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, the Company completed its annual goodwill impairment tests and elected to perform a qualitative assessment. As a result of the qualitative testing during 2020, 2019, and 2018, no goodwill impairment charges were recorded. 23 Indefinite-lived Intangible Assets In conducting the annual impairment test for its indefinite-lived intangible assets, the Company first performs a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not (> 50% likelihood) that an indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired. If the Company concludes this is the case, a quantitative test for impairment must be performed. Otherwise, the Company does not need to perform a quantitative test. In conducting the qualitative assessment, the Company analyzes growth rates for historical and projected net sales and the results of prior quantitative tests performed. Additionally, the Company assesses critical areas that may impact the value of its intangible assets or the applicable royalty rates to determine if impairment may be indicated. If performed, the quantitative impairment test compares the fair value to the carrying value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset. The fair value of indefinite-lived intangible assets is primarily determined on the basis of estimated discounted value, using the relief from royalty method (Level 3). This method incorporates assumptions regarding future sales projections, discount rates, and royalty rates. If the carrying value exceeds fair value, the indefinite-lived intangible asset is considered impaired and an impairment charge is recorded. Even if not required, the Company may elect to perform the quantitative test in order to gain further assurance in the qualitative assessment. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, the Company completed its annual indefinite-live impairment tests by performing a qualitative assessment. During 2019, the Company elected to quantitatively test two indefinite-lived intangible assets and to perform a qualitative assessment for the remaining assets. No impairment charges were recorded as a result of the qualitative and quantitative testing during fiscal years 2020 and 2019. During fiscal 2018, a $17.3 million intangible asset impairment charge was recorded for the CytoSport trademark. No other material impairment charges were recorded in fiscal 2018. Pension and Other Post-retirement Benefits: The Company incurs expenses relating to employee benefits, such as noncontributory defined benefit pension plans and post-retirement health care benefits. In accounting for these employment costs and the associated liabilities, management must make a variety of assumptions and estimates including mortality rates, discount rates, compensation increases, expected return on plan assets, and health care cost trend rates. The Company considers historical data as well as current facts and circumstances when determining these estimates. The Company uses third-party specialists to assist management in the determination of these estimates and the calculation of certain employee benefit expenses and the outstanding obligation. Benefit plan assets are stated at fair value. Due to the lack of readily available market prices, private equity investments are valued by models using a combination of available market data and unobservable inputs that consider earnings multiples, discounted cash flows, and other qualitative and quantitative factors. Other benefit plan investments are measured at Net Asset Value (NAV) per share of the fund's underlying investments as a practical expedient. These valuations are subject to judgments and assumptions of the funds which may prove to be incorrect, resulting in risks of incorrect valuation of these investments. The Company seeks to mitigate these risks by evaluating the appropriateness of the funds’ judgments and assumptions by reviewing the financial data included in the funds’ financial statements for reasonableness. The Company also holds quarterly meetings with the investment adviser to review fund performance, which include comparisons to the relevant indices. On an annual basis, the Company performs pricing tests on certain underlying investments to gain additional assurance of the reliability of values received from the fund manager. See Note F - Pension and Other Post-retirement Benefits for additional information. Income Taxes: The Company records income taxes in accordance with the liability method of accounting. Deferred taxes are recognized for the estimated taxes ultimately payable or recoverable based on enacted tax law. Changes in enacted tax rates are reflected in the tax provision as they occur. The Company computes its provision for income taxes based on the statutory tax rates and tax planning opportunities available to it in the various jurisdictions in which it operates. Judgment is required in evaluating the Company’s tax positions and determining its annual tax provision. While the Company considers all of its tax positions fully supportable, the Company is occasionally challenged by various tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. The Company recognizes a tax position in its financial statements when it is more likely than not the position will be sustained upon examination, based on the technical merits of the position. This position is then measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. A change in judgment related to the expected ultimate resolution of uncertain tax positions will be recognized in earnings in the quarter of such change. Contingent Liabilities: At any time, the Company may be subject to investigations, legal proceedings or claims related to the ongoing operation of its business, including claims both by and against the Company. Such proceedings typically involve claims related to product liability, contract disputes, wage and hour laws, employment practices, antitrust regulations, or other actions brought by employees, consumers, competitors, or suppliers. The Company routinely assesses the likelihood of any adverse outcomes related to these matters on a case by case basis, as well as the potential ranges of losses and fees. The Company establishes accruals for its potential exposure, as appropriate, for claims against the Company when losses become probable and reasonably estimable. Where the Company is able to reasonably estimate a range of potential losses, the Company records the amount within that range which constitutes the Company’s best estimate. The Company also discloses the nature and range of loss for claims against the Company when losses are reasonably possible and material. These accruals and disclosures are determined based on the facts and circumstances related to the individual cases and require estimates and judgments regarding the interpretation of facts and laws, as well as the effectiveness of strategies or factors beyond our control. 24 Item 7A.