 PART I Item 1. BUSINESS General Development of Business Hormel Foods Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the Company), was founded by George A. Hormel in 1891 in Austin, Minnesota, as Geo. A. Hormel & Company. The Company started as a processor of meat and food products and continues in this line of business. The Company’s name was changed to Hormel Foods Corporation on January 31, 1995. The Company is primarily engaged in the production of a variety of meat and food products and the marketing of those products throughout the United States and internationally. Although pork and turkey remain the major raw materials for its products, the Company has emphasized for several years the manufacturing and distribution of branded, value-added consumer items rather than the commodity fresh meat business. The Company has continually expanded its product portfolio through organic growth and acquisitions. Internationally, the Company markets its products through Hormel Foods International Corporation (HFIC), a wholly owned subsidiary. HFIC has a global presence in the international marketplace through joint ventures and placement of personnel in strategic foreign locations such as Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Japan, and the Philippines. HFIC has a minority position in a food company in the Philippines (The Purefoods-Hormel Company, Inc., 40% holding). On April 15, 2019, the Company completed the sale of CytoSport, Inc. (CytoSport), which includes the Muscle Milk® and Evolve® brands, to PepsiCo, Inc., and received final proceeds of $479.8 million. The divestiture resulted in a pretax gain of $16.5 million recognized in Selling, General and Administrative expense and a tax benefit of $17.0 million recognized within the Provision for Income Taxes on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. On December 3, 2018, the Company completed the sale of its Fremont, Nebraska, processing facility to Wholestone Farms, LLC, for a final purchase price of $30.6 million. On November 27, 2017, the Company acquired Columbus Manufacturing, Inc. (Columbus), an authentic premium deli meat and salami company, from Chicago-based Arbor Investments, for a final purchase price of $857.4 million. The transaction was funded with cash on hand along with borrowing $375.0 million under a term loan facility and $375.0 million under a revolving credit facility. Columbus specializes in authentic premium deli meat and salami and allows the Company to enhance its scale in the deli by broadening its portfolio of products, customers, and consumers. On August 22, 2017, the Company acquired Cidade do Sol (Ceratti) for a final purchase price of $103.3 million. The transaction was funded by the Company with cash on hand. The acquisition of the Ceratti® brand allows the Company to establish a full in-country presence in the fast-growing Brazilian market with a premium brand. On August 16, 2017, the Company acquired Fontanini Italian Meats and Sausages (Fontanini), a branded foodservice business, from Capitol Wholesale Meats, Inc. for a final purchase price of $425.7 million. The transaction was funded by the Company with cash on hand and by utilizing short-term financing. Fontanini specializes in authentic Italian meats and sausages, as well as a variety of other premium meat products including pizza toppings and meatballs and allows the Company to expand its foodservice business. On January 3, 2017, the Company completed the sale of Clougherty Packing, LLC, parent company of Farmer John and Saag’s Specialty Meats, along with PFFJ, LLC, farm operations in California, Arizona, and Wyoming. The closing price was $145.0 million in cash. On May 26, 2016, the Company acquired Justin’s, LLC (Justin’s) of Boulder, Colorado, for a purchase price of $280.9 million. The purchase price was funded by the Company with cash on hand and by utilizing short-term financing. This acquisition allowed the Company to enhance its presence in the specialty natural and organic nut butter category. On May 9, 2016, the Company completed the sale of Diamond Crystal Brands resulting in proceeds of $110.1 million, net of selling costs. On July 13, 2015, the Company acquired Applegate Farms, LLC (Applegate) of Bridgewater, New Jersey, for a final purchase price of $774.1 million in cash. The purchase price was funded by the Company with cash on hand and by utilizing short-term financing. This acquisition allows the Company to expand the breadth of its protein offerings to provide consumers more choice in this fast growing category. The Company had no other significant change in the type of products produced or services rendered, or in the markets or methods of distribution, since the beginning of the 2019 fiscal year. The Company has not been involved in any bankruptcy, receivership, or similar proceedings during its history. 3 Segments The Company develops, processes, and distributes a wide array of food products in a variety of markets. The Company reports results in the following four segments: Grocery Products, Refrigerated Foods, Jennie-O Turkey Store, and International & Other. At the beginning of fiscal 2019, the Hormel Deli Solutions division combined all deli businesses, including the Jennie-O Turkey Store deli division, into one division within the Refrigerated Foods segment. In addition, the ingredients business was realigned from the Grocery Products segment to the Refrigerated Foods segment. Segment results for fiscal years prior to 2019 have been adjusted to reflect these changes. Net sales to unaffiliated customers, operating profit, total assets, and the presentation of certain other financial information by segment, are reported in Note P - Segment Reporting of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and in the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Description of Business Products and Distribution The Company’s products primarily consist of meat and other food products sold across multiple distribution channels such as U.S. Retail, U.S. Foodservice, U.S. Deli, and International. Total revenues contributed by classes of similar products and sales channels for the last three fiscal years are reported in Note P - Segment Reporting of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Domestically, the Company sells its products in all 50 states. The Company’s products are sold through its sales personnel, operating in assigned territories or as dedicated teams serving major customers, coordinated from sales offices located in most of the larger U.S. cities. The Company also utilizes independent brokers and distributors. Distribution of products to customers is primarily by common carrier. Through HFIC, the Company markets its products in various locations throughout the world. Some of the larger markets include Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, England, Japan, Mexico, Micronesia, the Philippines, Singapore, and South Korea. The distribution of export sales to customers is by common carrier, while the China and Brazil operations own and operate their own delivery systems. The Company, through HFIC, has licensed companies to manufacture various products internationally on a royalty basis, with the primary licensees being Danish Crown UK Ltd. and CJ CheilJedang Corporation. As of October 27, 2019, the Company had approximately 970 direct sales representatives engaged in selling its products globally. Raw Materials The Company has, for the past several years, been concentrating on branded products for consumers with year-round demand to minimize the seasonal variation experienced with commodity-type products. Pork continues to be the primary raw material for Company products. The Company’s expanding line of branded products has reduced, but not eliminated, the sensitivity of Company results to raw material supply and price fluctuations. The majority of the hogs harvested for the Company are purchased under supply contracts from producers located principally in Minnesota and Iowa. The cost of hogs and the utilization of the Company’s facilities are affected by both the level and the methods of pork production in the United States. The Company uses supply contracts to ensure a stable supply of raw materials. The Company’s contracts are based on market-based formulas and/or markets of certain swine production inputs, to better balance input costs with customer pricing, and all contract costs are fully reflected in the Company’s reported financial statements. In fiscal 2019, the Company purchased 93 percent of its hogs under supply contracts. In fiscal 2019, Jennie-O Turkey Store raised turkeys representing approximately 79 percent of the volume needed to meet its raw material requirements for branded turkey products and whole birds. Turkeys not sourced within the Company are contracted with independent turkey growers. Jennie-O Turkey Store’s turkey-raising farms are located throughout Minnesota and Wisconsin. Production costs in raising hogs and turkeys are subject primarily to fluctuations in grain prices and fuel costs. To manage this risk, the Company hedges a portion of its anticipated purchases of grain using futures contracts. The Company purchases other commodity based raw materials such as beef, pork, and chicken for use across all segments. Raw materials are obtained from various suppliers and manufacturers. The Company has long standing relationships with its sources of raw materials and expects to have an adequate supply for its present needs. Additionally, the cost and supply of avocados, peanuts, and whey are impacted by the changing market forces of supply and demand, which can impact the cost of the Company’s products. The Company uses long-term supply contracts and forward buying in an attempt to manage these risks. Manufacturing The Company manufactures its products through various harvest and processing facilities along with custom manufacturers. 4 Environmental Matters In addition to creating economic value, the Company is committed to building social value. The Company recently launched its corporate responsibility platform, Our Food Journey TM. This journey consists of producing food responsibly for customers and consumers around the world by focusing on investing in people and partners, improving communities around the world, and creating products to improve the lives of others. The capital expenditures associated with these commitments are not material with respect to the Company’s capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position. Patents and Trademarks There are numerous patents and trademarks important to the Company’s business. The Company holds 34 U.S. issued and 9 foreign patents. Most of the trademarks the Company uses are registered in the U.S. and other countries. Some of the more significant owned or licensed trademarks used by the Company or its affiliates are: HORMEL, ALWAYS TENDER, APPLEGATE, AUSTIN BLUES, BACON 1, BLACK LABEL, BREAD READY, BURKE, CAFÉ H, CERATTI, CHI-CHI’S, COLUMBUS, COMPLEATS, CURE 81, DAN’S PRIZE, DI LUSSO, DINTY MOORE, DON MIGUEL, DOÑA MARIA, EMBASA, FAST ‘N EASY, FIRE BRAISED, FONTANINI, HERDEZ, HORMEL GATHERINGS, HORMEL VITAL CUISINE, HOUSE OF TSANG, JENNIE-O, JUSTIN’S, LA VICTORIA, LAYOUT, LLOYD’S, MARY KITCHEN, NATURAL CHOICE, OLD SMOKEHOUSE, OVEN READY, PILLOW PACK, ROSA GRANDE, SKIPPY, SPAM, SPECIAL RECIPE, THICK & EASY, VALLEY FRESH, and WHOLLY. The Company’s patents expire after a term that is typically 20 years from the date of filing, with earlier expiration possible based on the Company’s decision to pay required maintenance fees. As long as the Company continues to use its trademarks, they are renewed indefinitely. Customers and Backlog Orders During fiscal 2019, sales to Walmart Inc. (Walmart) represented approximately 13.5 percent of the Company’s revenues (measured as gross sales less returns and allowances), compared to 13.6 percent in fiscal 2018. Walmart is a customer for all four segments of the Company. The five largest customers in each segment make up approximately the following percentage of segment sales: 45 percent of Grocery Products, 35 percent of Refrigerated Foods, 52 percent of Jennie-O Turkey Store, and 16 percent of International & Other. The loss of one or more of the top customers in any of these segments could have a material adverse effect on the results of such segment. Backlog orders are not significant due to the perishable nature of a large portion of the products. Orders are accepted and shipped on a current basis. Competition The production and sale of meat and food products in the United States and internationally is highly competitive. The Company competes with manufacturers of pork and turkey products, as well as national and regional producers of other meat and protein sources, such as beef, chicken, fish, peanut butter, and whey. The Company believes its largest domestic competitors for its Refrigerated Foods segment in 2019 were Tyson Foods, Inc. and Smithfield Foods, Inc.; for its Grocery Products segment, Conagra Brands, Inc., General Mills, Inc., Campbell Soup Co., J. M. Smucker Co., and Treehouse Foods Inc.; and for Jennie-O Turkey Store, Cargill, Inc. and Butterball, LLC. All segments compete on the basis of price, product quality and attributes, brand identification, breadth of product line, and customer service. Through aggressive marketing and strong quality assurance programs, the Company’s strategy is to provide higher quality products that possess strong brand recognition, which then supports higher value perceptions from customers. Employees As of October 27, 2019, the Company had approximately 18,800 active domestic and foreign employees. Available Information The Company makes available its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 on its website at www.hormelfoods.com. These reports are accessible under the caption, “Investors – Filings & Reports – SEC Filings” on the Company’s website and are available as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). These filings are also available on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. The documents are available in print, free of charge, to any stockholder who requests them. 5 Information About Executive Officers No family relationship exists among the executive officers. Executive officers are designated annually by the Board of Directors at the first meeting following the Annual Meeting of Stockholders. Vacancies may be filled and additional officers elected at any time. The May 2018 bylaw amendments delegated the authority to appoint and remove Vice Presidents (other than Executive Vice Presidents, Group Vice Presidents, and Senior Vice Presidents) to the Company’s Chief Executive Officer. 6 Item 1A.