 PART I Item 1. BUSINESS The Hershey Company was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware on October 24, 1927 as a successor to a business founded in 1894 by Milton S. Hershey. In this report, the terms “Hershey,” “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our” mean The Hershey Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries and entities in which it has a controlling financial interest, unless the context indicates otherwise. Hershey is a global confectionery leader known for making more moments of goodness through chocolate, sweets, mints and other great tasting snacks. We are the largest producer of quality chocolate in North America, a leading snack maker in the United States and a global leader in chocolate and non-chocolate confectionery. We market, sell and distribute our products under more than 100 brand names in approximately 80 countries worldwide. Reportable Segments Since December 31, 2014, the Company has reported its operations through two segments: (i) North America and (ii) International and Other. After the completion of the Company’s acquisitions of Dot’s Pretzels, LLC (“Dot’s”) and Pretzels Inc. (“Pretzels”) in December 2021, as described in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, management of the Company has elected to begin reporting its operations through three reportable segments. Therefore, effective in the fourth quarter of 2021, the Company realigned its former two reportable segments into three reportable segments: (i) North America Confectionery, (ii) North America Salty Snacks and (iii) International. This new organizational structure aligns with how our Chief Operating Decision Maker (“CODM”) manages our business, including resource allocation and performance assessment, and further aligns with our product categories and the key markets we serve. We have retroactively reflected these changes in all historical periods presented. • North America Confectionery – This segment is responsible for our traditional chocolate and non-chocolate confectionery market position in the United States and Canada. This includes chocolate and non-chocolate confectionery, gum and refreshment products, protein bars, spreads, snack bites and mixes, as well as pantry and food service lines. This segment also includes our retail operations, including Hershey’s Chocolate World stores in Hershey, Pennsylvania; New York, New York; Las Vegas, Nevada; Niagara Falls (Ontario) and Singapore, as well as operations associated with licensing the use of certain of the Company’s trademarks and products to third parties around the world. • North America Salty Snacks – This segment is responsible for our salty snacking products in the United States. This includes ready-to-eat popcorn, baked and trans fat free snacks, pretzels and other snacks. • International – International is a combination of all other operating segments that are not individually material, including those geographic regions where we operate outside of North America. We currently have operations and manufacture product in Mexico, Brazil, India and Malaysia, primarily for consumers in these regions, and also distribute and sell confectionery products in export markets of Asia, Latin America, Middle East, Europe, Africa and other regions. Financial and other information regarding our reportable segments is provided in our Management’s Discussion and Analysis and Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Business Acquisitions and Divestitures In December 2021, we completed the acquisition of Pretzels, previously a privately held company that manufactures and sells pretzels and other salty snacks for other branded products and private labels in the United States. Pretzels is an industry leader in the pretzel category with a product portfolio that includes filled, gluten free and seasoned pretzels, as well as extruded snacks that complements Hershey’s snacks portfolio. Based in Bluffton, Indiana, Pretzels operates three manufacturing locations in Indiana and Kansas. Pretzels provides Hershey deep pretzel category and product expertise and the manufacturing capabilities to support brand growth and future pretzel innovation. Additionally, we completed the acquisition of Dot’s, previously a privately held company that produces and sells pretzels and other snack food products to retailers and distributors in the United States, with Dot’s Homestyle Pretzels snacks as its primary product. Dot’s is the fastest-growing scale brand in the pretzel category and complements Hershey’s snacks portfolio. Pretzels and Dot’s are expected to generate aggregate annualized net sales over $300 million. In June 2021, we completed the acquisition of Lily’s Sweets, LLC (“Lily’s”), previously a privately held company that sells a line of sugar-free and low-sugar confectionery foods to retailers and distributors in the United States and Canada. Lily’s products include dark and milk chocolate style bars, baking chips, peanut butter cups and other confection products that complement Hershey’s confectionery and confectionery-based portfolio. Lily’s is expected to generate annualized net sales over $100 million. In January 2021, we completed the divestiture of Lotte Shanghai Foods Co., Ltd. (“LSFC”), which was previously included within the International segment results in our consolidated financial statements. Total proceeds from the divestiture and the impact on our consolidated financial statements were immaterial. During the second quarter of 2020, we completed the divestitures of KRAVE Pure Foods, Inc. (“Krave”), which was previously included within the North America Salty Snacks segment, and the Scharffen Berger and Dagoba brands, both of which were previously included within the North America Confectionery segment results in our consolidated financial statements. In September 2019, we completed the acquisition of ONE Brands, LLC (“ONE Brands”), previously a privately held company that sells a line of low-sugar, high-protein nutrition bars to retailers and distributors in the United States, with the ONE bar as its primary product. Products and Brands Our principal product offerings include chocolate and non-chocolate confectionery products; gum and mint refreshment products and protein bars; snack items such as popcorn, pretzels, spreads, snack bites and mixes; and pantry items, such as baking ingredients, toppings and beverages. • Within our North America Confectionery segment, our product portfolio includes a wide variety of chocolate offerings marketed and sold under the renowned brands of Hershey’s, Reese’s and Kisses, along with other popular chocolate and non-chocolate confectionery brands such as Jolly Rancher, Almond Joy, Brookside, barkTHINS, Cadbury, Good & Plenty, Heath, Kit Kat® , Payday, Rolo® , Twizzlers, Whoppers and York. Our protein bar products include ONE bar and our gum and mint products include Ice Breakers mints and chewing gum, Breath Savers mints and Bubble Yum bubble gum. We also have pantry items, including baking products, toppings and sundae syrups sold under the Hershey’s, Reese’s, Heath and Lily’s brands, as well as Hershey’s and Reese’s chocolate spreads and snack bites and mixes. • Within our North America Salty Snacks segment, we have our salty snack items. This includes ready-to-eat SkinnyPop popcorn, baked and trans fat free Pirates Booty snacks, Dot’s Homestyle Pretzels snacks and other snack brands such as Paqui. • Within our International segment, we manufacture, market and sell many of these same brands, as well as other brands that are marketed regionally, such as Pelon Pelo Rico confectionery products in Mexico, IO-IO snack products in Brazil and Sofit beverage products in India. Principal Customers and Marketing Strategy Our customers are mainly wholesale distributors, chain grocery stores, mass merchandisers, chain drug stores, vending companies, wholesale clubs, convenience stores, dollar stores, concessionaires and department stores. The majority of our customers, with the exception of wholesale distributors, resell our products to end-consumers in retail outlets in North America and other locations worldwide. In 2021, approximately 30% of our consolidated net sales were made to McLane Company, Inc., one of the largest wholesale distributors in the United States (“U.S.”) to convenience stores, drug stores, wholesale clubs and mass merchandisers and the primary distributor of our products to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. The foundation of our marketing strategy is our strong brand equities, product innovation and the consistently superior quality of our products. We devote considerable resources to the identification, development, testing, manufacturing and marketing of new products. We utilize a variety of promotional programs directed towards our customers, as well as advertising and promotional programs for consumers of our products, to stimulate sales of certain products at various times throughout the year. In conjunction with our sales and marketing efforts, our efficient product distribution network helps us maintain sales growth and provide superior customer service by facilitating the shipment of our products from our manufacturing plants to strategically located distribution centers. We primarily use common carriers to deliver our products from these distribution points to our customers. Raw Materials and Pricing Cocoa products, including cocoa liquor, cocoa butter and cocoa powder processed from cocoa beans, are the most significant raw materials we use to produce our chocolate products. These cocoa products are purchased directly from third-party suppliers, who source cocoa beans that are grown principally in Far Eastern, West African, Central and South American regions. West Africa accounts for approximately 70% of the world’s supply of cocoa beans. Adverse changes in climate or extreme weather, crop disease, political unrest and other problems in cocoa-producing countries have caused price fluctuations in the past, but have never resulted in the total loss of a particular producing country’s cocoa crop and/or exports. In the event that a significant disruption occurs in any given country, we believe cocoa from other producing countries and from current physical cocoa stocks in consuming countries would provide a significant supply buffer. Our trading company in Switzerland performs all aspects of cocoa procurement, including price risk management, physical supply procurement and sustainable sourcing oversight. The trading company optimizes the supply chain for our cocoa requirements, with a strategic focus on gaining real time access to cocoa market intelligence. It also provides us with the ability to recruit and retain world class commodities traders and procurement professionals and enables enhanced collaboration with commodities trade groups, the global cocoa community and sustainable sourcing resources. We also use substantial quantities of sugar, corn products, Class II and IV dairy products, wheat products, peanuts, almonds and energy in our production process. Most of these inputs for our domestic and Canadian operations are purchased from suppliers in the United States. For our international operations, inputs not locally available may be imported from other countries. We change prices and weights of our products when necessary to accommodate changes in input costs, the competitive environment and profit objectives, while at the same time maintaining consumer value. Price increases and weight changes help to offset increases in our input costs, including raw and packaging materials, fuel, utilities, transportation costs and employee benefits. When we implement price increases, there is usually a time lag between the effective date of the list price increases and the impact of the price increases on net sales, in part because we typically honor previous commitments to planned consumer and customer promotions and merchandising events subsequent to the effective date of the price increases. In addition, promotional allowances may be increased subsequent to the effective date, delaying or partially offsetting the impact of price increases on net sales. Competition Many of our confectionery brands enjoy wide consumer acceptance and are among the leading brands sold in the marketplace in North America and certain international markets. We sell our brands in highly competitive markets with many other global multinational, national, regional and local firms. Some of our competitors are large companies with significant resources and substantial international operations. Competition in our product categories is based on product innovation, product quality, price, brand recognition and loyalty, effectiveness of marketing and promotional activity, the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences, as well as convenience and service. We have also experienced increased competition from other snack items, and through innovation and acquisitions, we are continuing to expand the boundaries of our brands to capture new snacking occasions. Working Capital, Seasonality and Backlog Our sales are typically higher during the third and fourth quarters of the year, representing seasonal and holiday-related sales patterns. We manufacture primarily for stock and typically fill customer orders within a few days of receipt. Therefore, the backlog of any unfilled orders is not material to our total annual sales. Additional information relating to our cash flows from operations and working capital practices is provided in our Management’s Discussion and Analysis. Trademarks, Service Marks and License Agreements We own various registered and unregistered trademarks and service marks. The trademarks covering our key product brands are of material importance to our business. We follow a practice of seeking trademark protection in the United States and other key international markets where our products are sold. We also grant trademark licenses to third parties to produce and sell pantry items, flavored milks and various other products primarily under the Hershey’s and Reese’s brand names. Furthermore, we have rights under license agreements with several companies to manufacture and/or sell and distribute certain products. Our rights under these agreements are extendible on a long-term basis at our option. Our most significant licensing agreements are as follows: Company Brand Location Requirements Kraft Foods Ireland Intellectual Property Limited/Cadbury UK Limited York Peter Paul Almond Joy Peter Paul Mounds Worldwide None Cadbury UK Limited Cadbury Caramello United States Minimum sales requirement exceeded in 2021 Société des Produits Nestlé SA Kit Kat® Rolo® United States Minimum unit volume sales exceeded in 2021 Iconic IP Interests, LLC Good & Plenty Heath Jolly Rancher Milk Duds Payday Whoppers Worldwide None Research and Development We engage in a variety of research and development activities in a number of countries, including the U.S., Mexico, Brazil, India and Malaysia. We develop new products, improve the quality of existing products, improve and modernize production processes and develop and implement new technologies to enhance the quality and value of both current and proposed product lines. Information concerning our research and development expense is contained in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Food Quality and Safety Regulation The manufacture and sale of consumer food products is highly regulated. In the United States, our activities are subject to regulation by various government agencies, including the Food and Drug Administration, the Department of Agriculture, the Federal Trade Commission, the Department of Commerce and the Environmental Protection Agency, as well as various state and local agencies. Similar agencies also regulate our businesses outside of the United States. We believe our Product Excellence Program provides us with an effective product quality and safety program. This program is integral to our global supply chain platform and is intended to ensure that all products we purchase, manufacture and distribute are safe, are of high quality and comply with applicable laws and regulations. Through our Product Excellence Program, we evaluate our supply chain including ingredients, packaging, processes, products, distribution and the environment to determine where product quality and safety controls are necessary. We identify risks and establish controls intended to ensure product quality and safety. Various government agencies and third-party firms as well as our quality assurance staff conduct audits of all facilities that manufacture our products to assure effectiveness and compliance with our program and applicable laws and regulations. Environmental Considerations Beyond ordinary course operating and capital expenditures we make to comply with government regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, we have made a number of voluntary commitments to protect and reduce our environmental impacts in recent years, including efforts to eliminate deforestation and reduce greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions across our supply chain. Our climate change related investments and expenditures primarily focus on achieving a 50% absolute reduction in our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions and a 25% absolute reduction in our Scope 3 GHG emissions by 2030 (compared to a 2018 baseline), as well as having 100% of plastic packaging be reusable, recyclable or compostable and 25 million pounds of packaging be eliminated by 2030. The annual operating and capital expenditures associated with these ordinary course payments and additional climate change commitments are not material with respect to our results of operations, capital expenditures or competitive position. Sustainability The Company’s commitment to sustainability started with our founder’s belief in responsible citizenship. He was a purpose-driven leader who believed we could use chocolate to Make More Moments of Goodness in the world for our consumers today and for many generations to come. This belief resulted in a strong investment in local communities and the establishment of Milton Hershey School for disadvantaged kids. We continue that legacy today through our holistic environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) strategy: our Shared Goodness Promise, which guides how we empower the remarkable people who make and sell our brands, interact with farming communities that grow our ingredients, deliver on our commitments to consumers, customers, and external stakeholders, protect the environment and support children and youth. To learn more about our sustainability goals, progress and initiatives, as well as review our annual ESG Report (formerly known as our Sustainability Report) and accompanying suite of ESG reporting frameworks, policies, and disclosures, access the Sustainability section of our website at: https://www.thehersheycompany.com/en_us/sustainability.html. Financial Information by Geographic Area Our principal operations and markets are located in the United States. The percentage of total consolidated net sales for our businesses outside of the United States was 13.0% for 2021, 13.6% for 2020 and 15.8% for 2019. The percentage of total long-lived assets outside of the United States was 18.8% as of December 31, 2021 and 19.7% as of December 31, 2020. Human Capital As of December 31, 2021, the Company employed approximately 16,620 full-time and 2,370 part-time employees worldwide. Collective bargaining agreements covered approximately 6,235 employees, or approximately 33% of the Company’s employees worldwide. During 2022, agreements are expected to be negotiated for certain employees at four facilities outside of the United States, comprising approximately 62% of total employees under collective bargaining agreements. We believe our efforts in managing our workforce have been effective, as evidenced by a strong culture and a good relationship between the Company and our employees. We are a purpose-driven company and for more than a century, our iconic brands have been built on a foundation of community investment and connections between people around the world. We could not have achieved this without our remarkable employees who make our purpose a reality. As a result, our human capital strategies are material to our operations and core to the long-term success of the Company. • Our People, Safety and Employee Engagement. Our employees are among our most important resources and are critical to our continued success. We provide a workplace that develops, supports and motivates our people. The overall well-being and safety of our employees remains one of our top priorities. We continue to invest in training, workplace resources and leading systems and processes to ensure the responsible management of all facilities. Additionally, in 2021, we changed our global employee survey from an annual basis to continuous listening surveys throughout the year. These shorter and faster surveys reach all of our employees around the world to hear their thoughts on the Company’s direction and their place in it. The change from an annual survey to continuous touchpoints allows for real-time feedback and action from the Company. These surveys are further supplemented with quarterly and informative enterprise and team town halls, which, in conjunction with the continuous listening surveys, generate stronger employee engagement with the Company’s strategy, initiatives and leadership. • Talent Acquisition, Development and Training. Hiring and developing our employees is critically important to our operations and we are focused on creating experiences and programs that foster growth and performance. We provide all employees the chance to learn, grow and own their work. We have partnered with leading online content experts and increased internal learning development to expand our catalog of online and classroom courses. Additionally, we have co-created a culture of development with the enthusiastic support of our employees. Through individual development plans, learning opportunities, feedback and coaching, employees can build careers at The Hershey Company, as evidenced by the fact that the majority of our eight executive officers were promoted from within the organization (see Information a bout Our Executive Officers ). • Compensation, Benefits and Wellness. In addition to offering competitive, fair and transparent compensation, we also offer a suite of benefits, including comprehensive health and meaningful retirement benefits to eligible employees, tying incentive compensation to both business and individual performance, offering parental leave and adoption benefits and maintaining an employee stock purchase plan. We also provide a number of innovative programs designed to promote physical and emotional well-being, including ergonomic workspaces, a state-of-the-art fitness center at our Hershey, Pennsylvania campus and private rooms designed for quiet reflection, prayer or wellness breaks. The Company also offers SmartFlex benefits which is our suite of policies that allows individuals to create their own balance between work and personal life, including flexing work time based on work priorities or personal commitments, such as caring for children or family members. We believe that this flexibility improves productivity, job satisfaction and increases employee engagement. Additionally, in 2021, we introduced the “Best of Both” flexible work model for corporate and commercial employees to balance work and personal well-being. This model allows employees the option to work either remote, in-office, or both, depending on individual needs, personal schedules and work demands. This offers the benefits of flexibility and in-person collaboration, while maintaining productivity and overall job satisfaction. • Diversity, Equity and Inclusion. Our diverse and inclusive culture makes the difference across all areas of the business. Our gender representation includes women occupying many of the top positions in the Company, including Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, Chief Accounting Officer and Chief Growth Officer, and approximately 50% representation across the Company. In 2020, we achieved 1:1 aggregate gender pay and in 2021, we achieved 1:1 aggregate people of color pay equity for salaried employees in the United States. Additionally, five of our 12 Board members are women (42% representation, an increase of 6% compared to 2020). Additionally, we create a welcoming and inclusive work environment for all employees around the world. Our eight employee-led Business Resource Groups, which include Abilities First, African American, Asian, GenH (Generations), Latino, Prism (LGBTQ), Veteran’s and Women’s, play a critical role in attracting diverse talent, providing mentoring and career development opportunities, delivering commercial business insights and connecting people to the Company and the communities where we do business. In 2021, the Company was ranked #10 on DiversityInc’s Top 50 Companies for Diversity and was ranked #1 on Forbes Top Female Friendly Companies. • Community and Social Impact. Our philanthropy and volunteerism efforts reflect how we live out the Company’s value of making moments of goodness, from supporting causes our employees care about to investing in the long-term success of the communities where we live and work. We work closely with counterparts in each of our plant and office locations across the United States and globally to identify local community needs and craft tailored approaches to provide support. This work includes forging partnerships with local non-governmental organizations, providing grants and contributions and organizing volunteer service activities and employee fundraisers. Available Information The Company's website address is www.thehersheycompany.com. We file or furnish annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). You may obtain a copy of any of these reports, free of charge, from the Investors section of our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The SEC maintains an Internet site that also contains these reports at www.sec.gov. In addition, copies of the Company’s annual report will be made available, free of charge, on written request to the Company. We have a Code of Conduct that applies to our Board of Directors (“Board”) and all Company officers and employees, including, without limitation, our Chief Executive Officer and “senior financial officers” (including the Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and persons performing similar functions). You can obtain a copy of our Code of Conduct, as well as our Corporate Governance Guidelines and charters for each of the Board’s standing committees, from the Investors section of our website at: https://www.thehersheycompany.com/en_us/investors.html. If we change or waive any portion of the Code of Conduct that applies to any of our directors, executive officers or senior financial officers, we will post that information on our website. Information found on the Company’s website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any other report filed with the SEC. Item 1A.