 Item 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This Management's Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”) is intended to provide an understanding of Hershey's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows by focusing on changes in certain key measures from year to year. The MD&A should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, particularly in Item 1A. “Risk Factors.” The MD&A is organized in the following sections: • Business Model and Growth Strategy • Overview • Consolidated Results of Operations • Segment Results • Financial Condition • Liquidity and Capital Resources • Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates BUSINESS MODEL AND GROWTH STRATEGY We are the largest producer of quality chocolate in North America, a leading snack maker in the United States and a global leader in chocolate and non-chocolate confectionery. We report our operations through two segments: North America and International and Other. We believe we have differentiated assets and capabilities that when integrated, can create advantage in the marketplace and secure our future. Our focus on the following strategic imperatives should enable us to drive shareholder value and deliver on our financial commitments. • Undisputed Leader in US Confection and Capturing Incremental Snacking Occasions. We are taking actions to deepen our consumer connections, utilize our beloved brands to deliver meaningful innovation and reinvent the shopping experience, while also pursuing opportunities to diversify our portfolio and establish a strong presence across the broader snacking continuum. ◦ Our products frequently play an important role in special meaningful moments among family and friends. Seasons are an important part of our business model and for consumers, they are highly anticipated, cherished special times, centered around traditions. For us, it’s an opportunity for our brands to be part of many connections during the year when family and friends gather. ◦ Innovation is an important lever in this variety seeking category and we are leveraging work from our proprietary demand landscape analytical tool to shape our future innovation and make it more impactful. We are becoming more disciplined in our focus on platform innovation, which should enable sustainable growth over time and significant extensions to our core. ◦ Through our shopper insights work, we are currently collaborating with our retail partners on in-aisle strategies that we believe will breathe life into the center of the store and transform the shopping experience by improving paths to purchase, stopping power, navigation, engagement and conversion. We have also responded to the changing retail environment by investing in digital commerce capabilities. ◦ To expand our breadth in snacking, we are focused on expanding the boundaries of our core confection brands to capture new snacking occasions and increasing our exposure into new snack categories through acquisitions. Our expansion into snacking is being fueled by the recent acquisitions of ONE Brands in September 2019, Pirate Brands in October 2018 and Amplify in January 2018, respectively. The Hershey Company | 2019 Form 10-K | Page 17 • Driving Profitable Growth, Allocating Capital Resources and Optimizing Cost Structure. We are focused on ensuring that we efficiently allocate our resources to the areas with the highest potential for profitable growth. We believe this will enable margin expansion and position us within the top quartile of operating income margin relative to our peers. ◦ We have reset our international investment, while holding fast to our belief that our targeted emerging market strategy will deliver long-term, profitable growth. The uncertain macroeconomic environment in many of these markets is expected to continue and we aim to ensure our investments in these international markets are appropriate relative to the size of the opportunity. ◦ We have heightened our selling, marketing and administrative expense discipline in an effort to make improvements to our cost structure without jeopardizing topline growth. Our expectation is that advertising and related marketing expense will grow roughly in line with sales. ◦ We will continue to optimize our cost of goods sold through pricing activities and programs like network supply chain optimization and lean manufacturing. • Expanding Competitive Advantage Through Differentiated Capabilities. In order to generate actionable insights, we must acquire, integrate, access and utilize vast sources of the right data in an effective manner. We are working to leverage our advanced analytical techniques to gain a deep understanding of consumers, our customers, our shoppers, our end-to-end supply chain, our retail environment and key economic drivers at both a macro and precision level, including digital transformation and new media models. In addition, we are in the process of transforming our enterprise resource planning system, which will enable employees to work more efficiently and effectively. OVERVIEW Hershey is a global confectionery leader known for bringing goodness to the world through chocolate, sweets, mints, gum and other great tasting snacks. We are the largest producer of quality chocolate in North America, a leading snack maker in the United States and a global leader in chocolate and non-chocolate confectionery. We market, sell and distribute our products under more than 80 brand names in approximately 85 countries worldwide. Our principal product offerings include chocolate and non-chocolate confectionery products; gum and mint refreshment products; pantry items, such as baking ingredients, toppings and beverages; and snack items such as spreads, meat snacks, bars and snack bites and mixes, popcorn and protein bars and cookies. Recent Developments The Company is closely monitoring an outbreak of respiratory illness caused by a novel coronavirus that was first detected in Wuhan City, Hubei Province, China and which continues to expand. The virus has impacted a host of sectors within China including retail, manufacturing, travel and hospitality. The financial and business impacts are currently unknown at this time; however, we believe will be limited to our China business which is part of our International and Other reportable segment. We are taking steps to protect our employees, consumers and business. Business Acquisitions In September 2019, we completed the acquisition of ONE Brands, LLC ("ONE Brands"), previously a privately held company that sells a line of low-sugar, high-protein nutrition bars to retailers and distributors in the United States, with the ONE Bar as its primary product. ONE Brands is expected to generate annualized net sales of approximately $100 million and complements our existing snacking businesses acquired in 2018. In October 2018, we completed the acquisition of Pirate Brands, which includes the Pirate's Booty, Smart Puffs and Original Tings brands, from B&G Foods, Inc. Pirate Brands offers baked, trans fat free and gluten free snacks and is available in a wide range of food distribution channels in the United States. In January 2018, we completed the acquisition of all of the outstanding shares of Amplify Snack Brands, Inc. ("Amplify"), a publicly traded company based in Austin, Texas that owns several popular better-for-you snack brands such as SkinnyPop, Oatmega and Paqui. The acquisition enables us to capture more consumer snacking occasions by creating a broader portfolio of brands. The Hershey Company | 2019 Form 10-K | Page 18 CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Net Sales 2019 compared with 2018 Net sales increased 2.5% in 2019 compared with 2018, reflecting a favorable price realization of 1.7% due to higher prices on certain products, a 1.0% benefit from net acquisitions and divestitures (predominantly driven by the 2019 acquisition of ONE Brands and the 2018 acquisition of Pirate Brands, partially offset by 2018 divestitures) and a volume increase of 0.1%, partially offset by an unfavorable impact from foreign currency exchange rates of 0.3%. Excluding foreign currency, our 2019 net sales increased 2.8%. Consolidated volumes increased due to solid marketplace growth in select international markets. 2018 compared with 2017 Net sales increased 3.7% in 2018 compared with 2017, reflecting a benefit from the recent Amplify and Pirate Brands acquisitions of 3.6% and a volume increase of 1.3%, partially offset by unfavorable price realization of 1.0% and an unfavorable impact from foreign currency exchange rates of 0.2%. Excluding the unfavorable impact from foreign currency exchange rates, our net sales increased 3.9%. Consolidated volumes increased due to the acquisitions of Amplify and Pirate Brands, as well as solid performance in select international markets, which more than offset the volume reduction resulting from the sale of Shanghai Golden Monkey ("SGM") in July 2018. The net increase in volume was partially offset by unfavorable net price realization, which was primarily attributed to incremental trade promotional expense in the North America segment in support of 2018 programming. The Hershey Company | 2019 Form 10-K | Page 19 Key U.S. Marketplace Metrics For the full year 2019, our total U.S. retail takeaway increased 2.5% in the expanded multi-outlet combined plus convenience store channels (IRI MULO + C-Stores), which includes candy, mint, gum, salty snacks, meat snacks and grocery items. Our U.S. candy, mint and gum ("CMG") consumer takeaway increased 2.6%, resulting in a slight CMG market share gain. The CMG consumer takeaway and market share information reflect measured channels of distribution accounting for approximately 90% of our U.S. confectionery retail business. These channels of distribution primarily include food, drug, mass merchandisers, and convenience store channels, plus Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., partial dollar, club and military channels. These metrics are based on measured market scanned purchases as reported by Information Resources, Incorporated ("IRI"), the Company's market insights and analytics provider, and provide a means to assess our retail takeaway and market position relative to the overall category. Cost of Sales and Gross Margin 2019 compared with 2018 Cost of sales increased 3.5% in 2019 compared with 2018. The increase was driven by higher freight and logistics costs, additional plant costs, and an incremental $33.9 million unfavorable impact from marking-to-market our commodity derivative instruments intended to economically hedge future years' commodity purchases. These drivers were partially offset by favorable supply chain productivity. Gross margin decreased by 50 basis points in 2019 compared with 2018. The decrease was primarily due to the higher freight and logistics costs, additional plant costs, and the unfavorable year-over-year mark-to-market impact from commodity derivative instruments. These factors were partially offset by supply chain productivity, price realization, and favorable product mix. 2018 compared with 2017 Cost of sales increased 3.8% in 2018 compared with 2017. The increase was driven by higher sales volume, higher freight and logistics costs and additional plant costs. These drivers were partially offset by an incremental $125.1 million favorable impact from marking-to-market our commodity derivative instruments intended to economically hedge future years' commodity purchases and supply chain productivity, Gross margin decreased by 10 basis points in 2018 compared with 2017. The decrease was primarily due to the higher freight and logistics costs, unfavorable product mix, additional plant costs related to new production lines, and incremental trade promotional expense. These factors were partially offset by the favorable year-over-year mark-to-market impact from commodity derivative instruments and supply chain productivity. Selling, Marketing and Administrative 2019 compared with 2018 Selling, marketing and administrative (“SM&A”) expenses increased $31.1 million or 1.7% in 2019. Total advertising and related consumer marketing expenses increased 4.2% driven by advertising increases in North America. SM&A expenses, excluding advertising and related consumer marketing, increased approximately 0.2% in 2019 due to incremental expenses from Pirate Brands and ONE Brands, as well as higher employee related compensation, which more than offset reductions in our base spending from the Margin for Growth Program. 2018 compared with 2017 SM&A expenses decreased $10.7 million or 0.6% in 2018. Total advertising and related consumer marketing expenses declined 10.9% due mainly to spend optimization and shifts relating to our emerging brands, as well as reductions in agency and production fees. SM&A expenses, excluding advertising and related consumer marketing, increased approximately 6.2% in 2018 due to incremental expenses from Amplify and Pirate Brands and higher expenses related to the multi-year implementation of our enterprise resource planning system, which more than offset reductions in our base spending from the Margin for Growth Program. The Hershey Company | 2019 Form 10-K | Page 20 Long-Lived and Intangible Asset Impairment Charges In 2019, we recorded the following impairment charges: For the year ended December 31, 2019 In millions of dollars Customer relationship and trademark intangible assets (1) $ 100.1 Other long-lived assets not held for sale (2) 9.7 Adjustment to disposal group (3) 2.7 Long-lived and intangible asset impairment charges $ 112.5 (1) During the fourth quarter of 2019, we recorded impairment charges to write down customer relationship and trademark intangible assets associated with KRAVE Pure Foods, Inc. (“Krave”). These charges were determined by comparing the fair value of the asset group to its carrying value. We used various valuation techniques to determine fair value, with the primary techniques being discounted cash flow analysis and relief-from-royalty valuation approaches, which use significant unobservable inputs, or Level 3 inputs, as defined by the fair value hierarchy. (2) During 2019, we recorded impairment charges predominantly comprised of select long-lived assets that had not yet met the held for sale criteria. The fair value of these assets was supported by potential sales prices with third-party buyers and market analysis. (3) In connection with our disposal group classified as held for sale, during 2019, we recorded impairment charges to adjust long-lived asset values. The fair value of the disposal group was supported by potential sales prices with third-party buyers. We expect the sale of the disposal group to be completed in the first half of 2020. In 2018, we recorded impairment charges totaling $57.7 million to adjust the long-lived asset values within certain disposal groups, including the SGM and Tyrrells businesses, the Lotte Shanghai Foods Co., Ltd. joint venture and other assets. These charges represent the excess of the disposal groups' carrying values, including the related currency translation adjustment amounts realized or to be realized upon completion of the sales, over the sales values less costs to sell for the respective businesses. The fair values of the disposal groups were supported by the sales prices paid by third-party buyers or estimated sales prices based on marketing of the disposal group, when the sale has not yet been completed. The sales of SGM and Tyrrells were both completed in July 2018. In 2017, in connection with the Margin for Growth Program and our initiative to optimize the manufacturing operations supporting our China business, we tested our China long-lived asset group for impairment. Our assessment indicated that the carrying value of the asset group was not recoverable, and as a result, the impairment loss was allocated to the asset group's long-lived assets. We recorded long-lived asset impairment charges totaling $106.0 million to write-down distributor relationship and trademark intangible assets that had been recognized in connection with the 2014 SGM acquisition and wrote-down property, plant and equipment by $102.7 million. The assessment of the valuation of goodwill and other long-lived assets is based on management estimates and assumptions, as discussed in our critical accounting policies included in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These estimates and assumptions are subject to change due to changing economic and competitive conditions. Business Realignment Activities We periodically undertake business realignment activities designed to increase our efficiency and focus our business in support of our key growth strategies. In 2019, 2018 and 2017, we recorded business realignment costs of $8.1 million, $19.1 million and $47.8 million, respectively. The 2019 and 2018 costs related primarily to the Margin for Growth Program, a program focused on improving global efficiency and effectiveness, optimizing the Company’s supply chain, streamlining the Company’s operating model and reducing administrative expenses to generate long-term savings. The 2017 costs related to the Margin for Growth Program and the Operational Optimization Program, a program which was completed in 2018. Costs associated with business realignment activities are classified in our Consolidated Statements of Income as described in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Hershey Company | 2019 Form 10-K | Page 21 Operating Profit and Operating Profit Margin 2019 compared with 2018 Operating profit decreased 1.7% in 2019 compared with 2018 due primarily to higher impairment charges and higher SM&A, partially offset by higher gross profit and lower business realignment costs in the 2019 period, as noted above. Operating profit margin decreased to 20.0% in 2019 from 20.8% in 2018 driven by these same factors. 2018 compared with 2017 Operating profit increased 23.6% in 2018 compared with 2017 due primarily to higher gross profit, lower impairment charges and business realignment costs, and lower SM&A in the 2018 period. Operating profit margin increased to 20.8% in 2018 from 17.5% in 2017 driven by these same factors. Interest Expense, Net 2019 compared with 2018 Net interest expense was $5.3 million higher in 2019 than in 2018. The increase was due to a higher average long-term debt balance in 2019 verses 2018. 2018 compared with 2017 Net interest expense was $40.6 million higher in 2018 than in 2017. The increase was due to higher levels of commercial paper issued to fund the Amplify acquisition and higher interest rates on our short-term debt, as well as incremental interest on $1.2 billion of notes issued in May 2018. Other (Income) Expense, Net 2019 compared with 2018 Other (income) expense, net totaled expense of $71.1 million in 2019 versus expense of $74.8 million 2018. The decrease in the net expense was primarily due to lower other non-operating losses during 2019 compared to the 2018 period. 2018 compared with 2017 Other (income) expense, net totaled expense of $74.8 million in 2018 versus expense of $104.4 million 2017. The decrease in the net expense was primarily due to lower non-service cost components of net periodic benefit cost relating to pension and other post-retirement benefit plans during 2018, as well as lower write-downs on equity investments qualifying for federal historic and energy tax credits. Income Taxes and Effective Tax Rate 2019 compared with 2018 Our effective income tax rate was 16.9% for 2019 compared with 17.0% for 2018. Relative to the 21% statutory rate, the 2019 effective tax rate was impacted by changes to foreign valuation allowances, a favorable foreign rate differential, investment tax credits and the benefit of ASU 2016-09 for accounting of employee share-based payment, which were partially offset by the impact of state taxes. The 2018 effective rate, relative to the 21% statutory rate, benefited from a favorable foreign rate differential and investment tax credits, which were partially offset by the impact of state taxes. 2018 compared with 2017 Our effective income tax rate was 17.0% for 2018 compared with 31.9% for 2017. Relative to the 21% statutory rate, the 2018 effective tax rate was impacted by a favorable foreign rate differential and investment tax credits, which were partially offset by the impact of state taxes. The 2017 effective rate, relative to the previous statutory rate of 35%, benefited from a favorable foreign rate differential, investment tax credits and the benefit of ASU 2016-09 for the accounting of employee share-based payments, which were partially offset by the impact of U.S. tax reform and non-benefited costs resulting from the Margin for Growth Program. The Hershey Company | 2019 Form 10-K | Page 22 Net Income attributable to The Hershey Company and Earnings Per Share-diluted 2019 compared with 2018 Net income decreased $27.9 million, or 2.4%, while EPS-diluted decreased $0.12, or 2.2%, in 2019 compared with 2018. The decrease in both net income and EPS-diluted was driven primarily by higher impairment charges and SM&A in 2019, partially offset by higher gross profit, lower business realignment costs and lower income taxes. Our 2019 EPS-diluted also benefited from lower weighted-average shares outstanding as a result of share repurchases pursuant to our Board-approved repurchase programs. 2018 compared with 2017 Net income increased $394.6 million, or 50.4%, while EPS-diluted increased $1.92, or 52.5%, in 2018 compared with 2017. The increase in both net income and EPS-diluted was driven primarily by 2018 higher gross profit, lower impairment charges and business realignment costs, lower SM&A, and lower income taxes, which were partly offset by higher interest expense, as noted above. Our 2018 EPS-diluted also benefited from lower weighted-average shares outstanding as a result of share repurchases, including both current year and prior year repurchases from the Milton Hershey School Trust (the "Trust"), as well as current year repurchases pursuant to our Board-approved repurchase programs. The Hershey Company | 2019 Form 10-K | Page 23 SEGMENT RESULTS The summary that follows provides a discussion of the results of operations of our two reportable segments: North America and International and Other. The segments reflect our operations on a geographic basis. For segment reporting purposes, we use “segment income” to evaluate segment performance and allocate resources. Segment income excludes unallocated general corporate administrative expenses, unallocated mark-to-market gains and losses on commodity derivatives, business realignment and impairment charges, acquisition-related costs and other unusual gains or losses that are not part of our measurement of segment performance. These items of our operating income are largely managed centrally at the corporate level and are excluded from the measure of segment income reviewed by the CODM and used for resource allocation and internal management reporting and performance evaluation. Segment income and segment income margin, which are presented in the segment discussion that follows, are non-GAAP measures and do not purport to be alternatives to operating income as a measure of operating performance. We believe that these measures are useful to investors and other users of our financial information in evaluating ongoing operating profitability as well as in evaluating operating performance in relation to our competitors, as they exclude the activities that are not directly attributable to our ongoing segment operations. Our segment results, including a reconciliation to our consolidated results, were as follows: (1) Includes centrally-managed (a) corporate functional costs relating to legal, treasury, finance and human resources, (b) expenses associated with the oversight and administration of our global operations, including warehousing, distribution and manufacturing, information systems and global shared services, (c) non-cash stock-based compensation expense and (d) other gains or losses that are not integral to segment performance. (2) Net (gains) losses on mark-to-market valuation of commodity derivative positions recognized in unallocated derivative (gains) losses. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Hershey Company | 2019 Form 10-K | Page 24 North America The North America segment is responsible for our chocolate and non-chocolate confectionery market position, as well as our grocery and growing snacks market positions, in the United States and Canada. This includes developing and growing our business in chocolate and non-chocolate confectionery, pantry, food service and other snacking product lines. North America accounted for 88.7%, 88.6% and 88.1% of our net sales in 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. North America results for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 were as follows: 2019 compared with 2018 Net sales of our North America segment increased $180.2 million or 2.6% in 2019 compared to 2018, reflecting a favorable price realization of 2.0% attributed to higher prices on certain products and a benefit from net impact of acquisitions and divestitures of 1.4%. This was partially offset by a volume decrease of 0.7% and an unfavorable impact from foreign currency exchange rates of 0.1%. Our volume decline was primarily elasticity-driven, as well as the introduction of new packaging formats during 2019. Excluding the Amplify, Pirate Brands and ONE Brands acquisitions and Tyrrells divestiture, our North America segment net sales increased 1.2% Our North America segment income increased $105.8 million or 5.2% in 2019 compared to 2018, primarily due to favorable price realization, favorable sales mix and favorable commodity costs, partially offset by higher freight and logistics costs, higher supply chain-related costs, and higher advertising expense. 2018 compared with 2017 Net sales of our North America segment increased $280.4 million or 4.2% in 2018 compared to 2017, which includes a 4.6% benefit from the Amplify and Pirate Brands acquisitions. Excluding the Amplify and Pirate Brands acquisitions, our North America segment net sales decreased 0.4%. Net price realization declined 1.3% due to incremental trade promotional expense in support of 2018 programming, partially offset by volume increases of 0.9% due to innovation, specifically driven by Reese's Outrageous bars and Hershey's Gold. Our North America segment income decreased $24.1 million or 1.2% in 2018 compared to 2017, primarily due to higher trade promotional expense, higher logistics costs, unfavorable sales mix and additional plant costs, as well as incremental SM&A expense, including amortization expense, from the Amplify and Pirate Brands acquisitions. These higher expenses more than offset reductions in advertising and related consumer marketing expense, which declined 11.2% versus the 2017 period, with the reduction driven by spend optimization and shifts relating to our emerging brands, as advertising and related consumer marketing on our core U.S. brands increased during the year. The Hershey Company | 2019 Form 10-K | Page 25 International and Other The International and Other segment includes all other countries where we currently manufacture, import, market, sell or distribute chocolate and non-chocolate confectionery and other products. Currently, this includes our operations in China and other Asia markets, Latin America, Europe, Africa and the Middle East, along with exports to these regions. While a less significant component, this segment also includes our global retail operations, including Hershey’s Chocolate World stores in Hershey, Pennsylvania, New York City, Las Vegas, Niagara Falls (Ontario) and Singapore, as well as operations associated with licensing the use of certain trademarks and products to third parties around the world. International and Other accounted for 11.3%, 11.4% and 11.9% of our net sales in 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. International and Other results for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 were as follows: 2019 compared with 2018 Net sales of our International and Other segment increased $15.0 million or 1.7% in 2019 compared to 2018, reflecting a volume increase of 5.7%, partially offset by a 2.2% reduction in net sales primarily from the divestiture of SGM, an unfavorable impact from foreign currency exchange rates of 1.5%, and unfavorable price realization of 0.3%. Excluding the divestiture of SGM and unfavorable foreign currency exchange rates, our International and Other segment net sales increased 5.4%. The volume increase was primarily attributed to solid marketplace growth in Mexico, India and Regional Markets where net sales increased by 6.7%, 4.9% and 4.5%, respectively. The unfavorable net price realization was driven by increased levels of trade promotional spending compared to the prior year. Our International and Other segment generated income of $95.7 million in 2019 compared to $73.8 million in 2018, with the improvement primarily resulting from our efforts to drive sustainable gross margin improvements as we executed our Margin for Growth program and optimize the product portfolio across various international markets. Additionally, segment income benefited from continued growth across Mexico, India, China and Regional Markets, as well as our licensing and world travel retail business. 2018 compared with 2017 Net sales of our International and Other segment decreased $4.8 million or 0.5% in 2018 compared to 2017, reflecting a 4.4% reduction in net sales from the divestiture of SGM and an unfavorable impact from foreign currency exchange rates of 1.8%, partially offset by volume increases of 4.7% and favorable price realization of 1.0%. Excluding the sale of SGM and unfavorable foreign currency exchange rates, our International and Other segment net sales increased 5.7%. The volume increase was primarily attributed to solid marketplace growth in Mexico and India where net sales increased by 4.3% and 21.5%, respectively. The favorable net price realization was driven by decreased levels of trade promotional spending compared to the prior year. Our International and Other segment generated income of $73.8 million in 2018 compared to $11.5 million in 2017, with the improvement primarily resulting from our efforts to drive sustainable gross margin improvements as we executed our Margin for Growth program and optimize the product portfolio across various international markets. Additionally, segment income benefited from continued growth across Mexico, Brazil, India and regional markets. The Hershey Company | 2019 Form 10-K | Page 26 Unallocated Corporate Expense Unallocated corporate expense includes centrally-managed (a) corporate functional costs relating to legal, treasury, finance and human resources, (b) expenses associated with the oversight and administration of our global operations, including warehousing, distribution and manufacturing, information systems and global shared services, (c) non-cash stock-based compensation expense and (d) other gains or losses that are not integral to segment performance. Unallocated corporate expense totaled $533.6 million in 2019 as compared to $486.8 million in 2018 primarily driven by compensation related expenses. In 2018, unallocated corporate expense decreased $12.4 million from $499.2 million in 2017 primarily driven by savings from our productivity and cost savings initiatives, partially offset by spending on the multi-year implementation of our enterprise resource planning system. FINANCIAL CONDITION We assess our liquidity in terms of our ability to generate cash to fund our operating, investing and financing activities. Significant factors affecting liquidity include cash flows generated from operating activities, capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividends, repurchases of outstanding shares, the adequacy of available commercial paper and bank lines of credit, and the ability to attract long-term capital with satisfactory terms. We generate substantial cash from operations and remain in a strong financial position, with sufficient liquidity available for capital reinvestment, strategic acquisitions and the payment of dividends. Cash Flow Summary The following table is derived from our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows: Operating activities Our principal source of liquidity is cash flow from operations. Our net income and, consequently, our cash provided by operations are impacted by sales volume, seasonal sales patterns, timing of new product introductions, profit margins and price changes. Sales are typically higher during the third and fourth quarters of the year due to seasonal and holiday-related sales patterns. Generally, working capital needs peak during the summer months. We meet these needs primarily with cash on hand, bank borrowings or the issuance of commercial paper. Cash provided by operating activities in 2019 increased $164.0 million relative to 2018. This increase was driven by the following factors: • Net working capital (comprised of trade accounts receivable, inventory, accounts payable and accrued liabilities), generated cash of $60 million in 2019 and consumed cash of $104 million in 2018. This $164 million fluctuation was mainly driven by higher cash receipts prior to year-end 2019, the timing of vendor and supplier payments, as well as higher accrued incentive compensation related to annual performance that will be paid in the first quarter of 2020. • Prepaid expenses and other current assets generated cash of $14 million in 2019, compared to a use of cash of $40 million in 2018. This $54 million fluctuation was mainly driven by the timing of payments on commodity futures. In addition, in 2019, the volume of commodity futures held, which require margin deposits, was lower compared to 2018. We utilize commodity futures contracts to economically manage the risk of future price fluctuations associated with our purchase of raw materials. The Hershey Company | 2019 Form 10-K | Page 27 • The increase in cash provided by operating activities was partially offset by the following net cash outflows: ◦ Incomes taxes used cash of $9 million in 2019, compared to cash generated of $76 million in 2018. This $85 million fluctuation was mainly due to the variance in actual tax expense for 2019 relative to the timing of quarterly estimated tax payments, which resulted in a lower taxes payable position at the end of 2019 compared to 2018. ◦ Net income adjusted for non-cash charges to operations (including depreciation, amortization, stock-based compensation, deferred income taxes, long-lived and intangible asset charges, write-down of equity investments and other charges) resulted in $2 million of lower cash flow in 2019 relative to 2018. Cash provided by operating activities in 2018 increased $350.4 million relative to 2017. This increase was driven by the following factors: • Net income adjusted for non-cash charges to operations (including depreciation, amortization, stock-based compensation, deferred income taxes, long-lived and intangible asset charges, write-down of equity investments and other charges) contributed $257 million of additional cash flow in 2018 relative to 2017. • Incomes taxes generated cash of $76 million in 2018, compared to a use of cash of $71 million in 2017. This $147 million fluctuation was mainly due to the variance in actual tax expense for 2018 relative to the timing of quarterly estimated tax payments, which resulted in a higher taxes payable position at the end of 2018 compared to 2017. • The increase in cash provided by operating activities was partially offset by the following net cash outflows: ◦ Prepaid expenses and other current assets used cash of $40 million in 2018, compared to cash generated of $18 million in 2017. This $58 million fluctuation was mainly driven by the timing of payments on commodity futures. In addition, in 2018, the volume of commodity futures held, which require margin deposits, was higher compared to 2017. We utilize commodity futures contracts to economically manage the risk of future price fluctuations associated with our purchase of raw materials. Pension and Post-Retirement Activity. We recorded net periodic benefit costs of $41.4 million, $42.1 million and $59.7 million in 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively, relating to our benefit plans (including our defined benefit and other post retirement plans). The main drivers of fluctuations in expense from year to year are assumptions in formulating our long-term estimates, including discount rates used to value plan obligations, expected returns on plan assets, the service and interest costs and the amortization of actuarial gains and losses. The funded status of our qualified defined benefit pension plans is dependent upon many factors, including returns on invested assets, the level of market interest rates and the level of funding. We contribute cash to our plans at our discretion, subject to applicable regulations and minimum contribution requirements. Cash contributions to our pension and post retirement plans totaled $20.1 million, $25.9 million and $56.4 million in 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Investing activities Our principal uses of cash for investment purposes relate to purchases of property, plant and equipment and capitalized software, as well as acquisitions of businesses, partially offset by proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment. We used cash of $780.5 million for investing activities in 2019 compared to $1,502.9 million in 2018, with the decrease in cash spend driven by less acquisition and divestiture activity. We used cash of $328.6 million for investing activities in 2017, with the decreases versus 2018 primarily driven by no business acquisition activity in 2017. Primary investing activities include the following: • Capital spending. Capital expenditures, including capitalized software, primarily to support our enterprise resource planning ("ERP") system implementation, capacity expansion, innovation and cost savings, were $318.2 million in 2019, $328.6 million in 2018 and $257.7 million in 2017. Our 2019 expenditures were relatively in line with 2018 expenditures. The increase in 2018 compared to 2017 was a result of increased U.S. core chocolate brand capacity expansion and investments in our multi-year ERP system implementation. We expect 2020 capital The Hershey Company | 2019 Form 10-K | Page 28 expenditures, including capitalized software, to approximate $475 million to $525 million. The increase in our 2020 capital expenditures is large driven by a multi-year supply chain project with a focus on additional capacity for our largest and fastest growing brands, building agile fulfillment and customization capabilities and investing in new data and technology within our supply chain enhancing visibility and automation. • Proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment and other long-lived assets. During 2019, we generated $28.1 million of proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment and other long-lived assets. This included the sale of select Pennsylvania facilities and land for sales proceeds of approximately $27.6 million, resulting in a gain on the sale of $11.3 million. During 2018, we generated $49.8 million of proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment and other long-lived assets. This included sales of select China facilities that were taken out of operation in connection with the Operational Optimization Program. Proceeds from the sale of these facilities totaled $27.5 million, resulting in a gain of $6.6 million. Additionally, we sold licensing rights for a non-core trademark relating to a brand marketed outside of the U.S. for $13.0 million, resulting in a gain of $2.7 million. • Proceeds from the sales of businesses. In July 2018, we sold the Tyrrells and SGM businesses. Collectively, the proceeds from the sales of these businesses, net of cash divested, totaled approximately $167.0 million. We had no divestiture activity in the comparable 2019 or 2017 periods. • Investments in partnerships qualifying for tax credits. We make investments in partnership entities that in turn make equity investments in projects eligible to receive federal historic and energy tax credits. We invested approximately $80.2 million in 2019, $52.6 million in 2018 and $78.6 million in 2017 in projects qualifying for tax credits. • Other investing activities. In 2019, we made minority investments in emerging snacking businesses that qualify as cost method investments. Financing activities Our cash flow from financing activities generally relates to the use of cash for purchases of our Common Stock and payment of dividends, offset by net borrowing activity and proceeds from the exercise of stock options. Financing activities in 2019 decreased cash by $1,081.4 million, compared to cash generated of $116.1 million in 2018. We used cash of $843.8 million for financing activities in 2017, primarily to fund dividend payments and share repurchases, partially offset by incremental borrowings. The majority of our financing activity was attributed to the following: • Short-term borrowings, net. In addition to utilizing cash on hand, we use short-term borrowings (commercial paper and bank borrowings) to fund seasonal working capital requirements and ongoing business needs. In 2019, we used $1.2 billion to reduce short-term commercial paper borrowings and short-term foreign borrowings. We utilized the proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt in October 2019 to repay outstanding commercial paper used to fund the ONE Brands acquisition. In 2018, we generated cash flow of $645.8 million through the issuance of short-term commercial paper, partially offset by a reduction in short-term foreign bank borrowings. We utilized the proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper to fund the Amplify acquisition and repay Amplify's outstanding debt owed under its existing credit agreement. A portion of the commercial paper borrowings used to fund the Amplify acquisition were subsequently refinanced with the proceeds of new notes issued during the second quarter of 2018, as discussed below. In 2017, we used $81.4 million to reduce commercial paper borrowings and short-term foreign borrowings. The Hershey Company | 2019 Form 10-K | Page 29 2018, we repaid a portion of the commercial paper borrowings that had been used to fund the Amplify acquisition. In 2017, we had minimal incremental long-term borrowings and no repayment activity. • Tax receivable obligation. In connection with the Amplify acquisition, the Company agreed to make payments to the counterparty of a tax receivable agreement. In 2018, we paid $72.0 million to settle the tax receivable obligation. • Share repurchases. We repurchase shares of Common Stock to offset the dilutive impact of treasury shares issued under our equity compensation plans. The value of these share repurchases in a given period varies based on the volume of stock options exercised and our market price. In addition, we periodically repurchase shares of Common Stock pursuant to Board-authorized programs intended to drive additional stockholder value. In 2019, we used cash for total share repurchases of $527.2 million that included purchases pursuant to authorized programs; this included $150.0 million to purchase 1.4 million shares. In 2018, we used cash for total share repurchases of $247.5 million, which included a privately negotiated repurchase transaction with Hershey Trust Company, as trustee for the Trust, to purchase 450 thousand shares for $47.8 million. In 2017, we used cash for total share repurchases of $300.3 million, which included a privately negotiated repurchase transaction with Hershey Trust Company, as trustee for the Trust, to purchase 1.5 million shares for $159.0 million. In October 2017, our Board of Directors approved a $100 million share repurchase authorization. This program was completed in the first quarter of 2019. In July 2018, our Board of Directors approved an additional $500 million share repurchase authorization. As of December 31, 2019, approximately $410 million remained available for repurchases of our Common Stock under this program. The share repurchase program does not have an expiration date. • Proceeds from the exercise of stock options, including tax benefits. We received $240.8 million from employee exercises of stock options, net of employee taxes withheld from share-based awards in 2019. We received $63.3 million in 2018 and 2017, respectively. Variances are driven primarily by the number of shares exercised and the share price at the date of grant. Liquidity and Capital Resources At December 31, 2019, our cash and cash equivalents totaled $493.3 million. At December 31, 2018, our cash and cash equivalents totaled $588.0 million. Our cash and cash equivalents at the end of 2019 decreased $94.7 million compared to the 2018 year-end balance as a result of the uses of net cash outlined in the previous discussion. Approximately 60% of the balance of our cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2019 was held by subsidiaries domiciled outside of the United States. The Company recognized the one-time U.S. repatriation tax due under U.S. tax reform and, as a result, repatriation of these amounts would not be subject to additional U.S. federal income tax but would be subject to applicable withholding taxes in the relevant jurisdiction. Our intent is to reinvest funds earned outside of the United States to finance foreign operations and investments, and our current plans do not demonstrate a need to repatriate them to fund our U.S. operations. We believe we have sufficient liquidity to satisfy our cash needs, including our cash needs in the United States. We maintain debt levels we consider prudent based on our cash flow, interest coverage ratio and percentage of debt to capital. We use debt financing to lower our overall cost of capital which increases our return on stockholders’ equity. Our total debt was $4.3 billion at December 31, 2019 and $4.5 billion at December 31, 2018. Our total debt decreased in 2019 mainly due to the repayment of commercial paper borrowings used to fund the ONE Brands acquisition, partially offset by additional Notes issued in October 2019. As a source of short-term financing, we maintain a $1.5 billion unsecured revolving credit facility with the option to increase borrowings by an additional $500 million with the consent of the lenders. As of December 31, 2019, the termination date of this agreement is July 2, 2024, however, we may extend the termination date for up to two additional one-year periods upon notice to the administrative agent under the facility. We may use these funds for The Hershey Company | 2019 Form 10-K | Page 30 general corporate purposes, including commercial paper backstop and business acquisitions. As of December 31, 2019, we had $1.5 billion of available capacity under the agreement. The unsecured revolving credit agreement contains certain financial and other covenants, customary representations, warranties and events of default. We were in compliance with all covenants as of December 31, 2019. In addition to the revolving credit facility, we maintain lines of credit in various currencies with domestic and international commercial banks. As of December 31, 2019, we had available capacity of $358 million under these lines of credit. Furthermore, we have a current shelf registration statement filed with the SEC that allows for the issuance of an indeterminate amount of debt securities. Proceeds from the debt issuances and any other offerings under the current registration statement may be used for general corporate requirements, including reducing existing borrowings, financing capital additions and funding contributions to our pension plans, future business acquisitions and working capital requirements. Our ability to obtain debt financing at comparable risk-based interest rates is partly a function of our existing cash-flow-to-debt and debt-to-capitalization levels as well as our current credit standing. We believe that our existing sources of liquidity are adequate to meet anticipated funding needs at comparable risk-based interest rates for the foreseeable future. Acquisition spending and/or share repurchases could potentially increase our debt. Operating cash flow and access to capital markets are expected to satisfy our various cash flow requirements, including acquisitions and capital expenditures. Equity Structure We have two classes of stock outstanding – Common Stock and Class B Stock. Holders of the Common Stock and the Class B Stock generally vote together without regard to class on matters submitted to stockholders, including the election of directors. Holders of the Common Stock have 1 vote per share. Holders of the Class B Stock have 10 votes per share. Holders of the Common Stock, voting separately as a class, are entitled to elect one-sixth of our Board. With respect to dividend rights, holders of the Common Stock are entitled to cash dividends 10% higher than those declared and paid on the Class B Stock. Hershey Trust Company, as trustee for the trust established by Milton S. and Catherine S. Hershey that has as its sole beneficiary Milton Hershey School, maintains voting control over The Hershey Company. In addition, three representatives of Hershey Trust Company currently serve as members of the Company's Board. In performing their responsibilities on the Company’s Board, these representatives may from time to time exercise influence with regard to the ongoing business decisions of our Board or management. Hershey Trust Company, as trustee for the Trust, in its role as controlling stockholder of the Company, has indicated it intends to retain its controlling interest in The Hershey Company. The Company's Board, and not the Hershey Trust Company board, is solely responsible and accountable for the Company’s management and performance. Pennsylvania law requires that the Office of Attorney General be provided advance notice of any transaction that would result in Hershey Trust Company, as trustee for the Trust, no longer having voting control of the Company. The law provides specific statutory authority for the Attorney General to intercede and petition the court having jurisdiction over Hershey Trust Company, as trustee for the Trust, to stop such a transaction if the Attorney General can prove that the transaction is unnecessary for the future economic viability of the Company and is inconsistent with investment and management considerations under fiduciary obligations. This legislation makes it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock and thereby may delay or prevent a change in control of the Company. Guarantees and Other Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have guarantees or other off-balance sheet financing arrangements, including variable interest entities, that we believe could have a material impact on our financial condition or liquidity. The Hershey Company | 2019 Form 10-K | Page 31 Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at December 31, 2019 : (1) Includes the net interest payments on fixed rate debt associated with long-term notes. (2) Includes the minimum rental commitments (including inputed interest) under non-cancelable operating leases primarily for offices, retail stores, warehouses and distribution facilities. (3) Includes the minimum rental commitments (including inputed interest) under non-cancelable finance leases primarily for offices and warehouse facilities, as well as vehicles. (4) Represents future pension payments to comply with local funding requirements. Our policy is to fund domestic pension liabilities in accordance with the minimum and maximum limits imposed by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”), federal income tax laws and the funding requirements of the Pension Protection Act of 2006. We fund non-domestic pension liabilities in accordance with laws and regulations applicable to those plans. For more information, see Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (5) Purchase obligations consist primarily of fixed commitments for the purchase of raw materials to be utilized in the normal course of business. Amounts presented included fixed price forward contracts and unpriced contracts that were valued using market prices as of December 31, 2019. The amounts presented in the table do not include items already recorded in accounts payable or accrued liabilities at year-end 2019, nor does the table reflect cash flows we are likely to incur based on our plans, but are not obligated to incur. Such amounts are part of normal operations and are reflected in historical operating cash flow trends. We do not believe such purchase obligations will adversely affect our liquidity position. In entering into contractual obligations, we have assumed the risk that might arise from the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts. We mitigate this risk by performing financial assessments prior to contract execution, conducting periodic evaluations of counterparty performance and maintaining a diverse portfolio of qualified counterparties. Our risk is limited to replacing the contracts at prevailing market rates. We do not expect any significant losses resulting from counterparty defaults. Asset Retirement Obligations We have a number of facilities that contain varying amounts of asbestos in certain locations within the facilities. Our asbestos management program is compliant with current applicable regulations, which require that we handle or dispose of asbestos in a specified manner if such facilities undergo major renovations or are demolished. We do not have sufficient information to estimate the fair value of any asset retirement obligations related to these facilities. We cannot specify the settlement date or range of potential settlement dates and, therefore, sufficient information is not available to apply an expected present value technique. We expect to maintain the facilities with repairs and maintenance activities that would not involve or require the removal of significant quantities of asbestos. Income Tax Obligations Liabilities for unrecognized income tax benefits are excluded from the table above as we are unable to reasonably predict the ultimate amount or timing of a settlement of these potential liabilities. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. The Hershey Company | 2019 Form 10-K | Page 32 Recent Accounting Pronouncements Information on recently adopted and issued accounting standards is included in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The preparation of financial statements requires management to use judgment and make estimates and assumptions. We believe that our most critical accounting policies and estimates relate to the following: • Accrued Liabilities for Trade Promotion Activities • Pension and Other Post-Retirement Benefits Plans • Business Acquisitions, Valuation and Impairment of Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets • Income Taxes Management has discussed the development, selection and disclosure of critical accounting policies and estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board. While we base estimates and assumptions on our knowledge of current events and actions we may undertake in the future, actual results may ultimately differ from these estimates and assumptions. Other significant accounting policies are outlined in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Accrued Liabilities for Trade Promotion Activities We promote our products with advertising, trade promotions and consumer incentives. These programs include, but are not limited to, discounts, coupons, rebates, in-store display incentives and volume-based incentives. We expense advertising costs and other direct marketing expenses as incurred. We recognize the costs of trade promotion and consumer incentive activities as a reduction to net sales along with a corresponding accrued liability based on estimates at the time of revenue recognition. These estimates are based on our analysis of the programs offered, historical trends, expectations regarding customer and consumer participation, sales and payment trends and our experience with payment patterns associated with similar programs offered in the past. The estimated costs of these programs are reasonably likely to change in future periods due to changes in trends with regard to customer and consumer participation, particularly for new programs and for programs related to the introduction of new products. Differences between estimated expense and actual program performance are recognized as a change in estimate in a subsequent period and are normally not significant. During 2019, 2018, and 2017, actual annual promotional costs have not deviated from the estimated amount by more than 3%. Our trade promotion and consumer incentive accrued liabilities totaled $181.0 million and $171.4 million at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Pension and Other Post-Retirement Benefits Plans We sponsor various defined benefit pension plans. The primary plans are The Hershey Company Retirement Plan and The Hershey Company Retirement Plan for Hourly Employees, which are cash balance plans that provide pension benefits for most U.S. employees hired prior to January 1, 2007. We also sponsor two primary other post-employment benefit (“OPEB”) plans, consisting of a health care plan and life insurance plan for retirees. The health care plan is contributory, with participants’ contributions adjusted annually, and the life insurance plan is non-contributory. For accounting purposes, the defined benefit pension and OPEB plans require assumptions to estimate the projected and accumulated benefit obligations, including the following variables: discount rate; expected salary increases; certain employee-related factors, such as turnover, retirement age and mortality; expected return on assets; and health care cost trend rates. These and other assumptions affect the annual expense and obligations recognized for the underlying plans. Our assumptions reflect our historical experiences and management's best judgment regarding future expectations. Our related accounting policies, accounting balances and plan assumptions are discussed in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Hershey Company | 2019 Form 10-K | Page 33 Pension Plans Changes in certain assumptions could significantly affect pension expense and benefit obligations, particularly the estimated long-term rate of return on plan assets and the discount rates used to calculate such obligations: • Long-term rate of return on plan assets. The expected long-term rate of return is evaluated on an annual basis. We consider a number of factors when setting assumptions with respect to the long-term rate of return, including current and expected asset allocation and historical and expected returns on the plan asset categories. Actual asset allocations are regularly reviewed and periodically rebalanced to the targeted allocations when considered appropriate. Investment gains or losses represent the difference between the expected return estimated using the long-term rate of return and the actual return realized. For 2019, we decreased the expected return on plan assets assumption to 5.3% from the 6.0% assumption used during 2018. The historical average return (compounded annually) over the 20 years prior to December 31, 2019 was approximately 6.8%. As of December 31, 2019, our primary plans had cumulative unrecognized investment and actuarial losses of approximately $296 million. We amortize the unrecognized net actuarial gains and losses in excess of the corridor amount, which is the greater of 10% of a respective plan’s projected benefit obligation or the fair market value of plan assets. These unrecognized net losses may increase future pension expense if not offset by (i) actual investment returns that exceed the expected long-term rate of investment returns, (ii) other factors, including reduced pension liabilities arising from higher discount rates used to calculate pension obligations or (iii) other actuarial gains when actual plan experience is favorable as compared to the assumed experience. A 100 basis point decrease or increase in the long-term rate of return on pension assets would correspondingly increase or decrease annual net periodic pension benefit expense by approximately $9 million. • Discount rate. Prior to December 31, 2017, the service and interest cost components of net periodic benefit cost were determined utilizing a single weighted-average discount rate derived from the yield curve used to measure the plan obligations. Beginning in 2018, we elected to utilize a full yield curve approach in the estimation of service and interest costs by applying the specific spot rates along the yield curve used in the determination of the benefit obligation to the relevant projected cash flows. We made this change to provide a more precise measurement of service and interest costs by improving the correlation between the projected cash flows to the corresponding spot rates along the yield curve. This change does not affect the measurement of our pension and other post-retirement benefit liabilities but generally results in lower benefit expense in periods when the yield curve is upward sloping, which was the case in 2018. We accounted for this change as a change in accounting estimate and, accordingly, accounted for it on a prospective basis starting in 2018. A 100 basis point decrease (increase) in the weighted-average pension discount rate would increase (decrease) annual net periodic pension benefit expense by approximately $5 million and the December 31, 2019 pension liability would increase by approximately $103 million or decrease by approximately $87 million, respectively. Pension expense for defined benefit pension plans is expected to be approximately $16 million in 2020. Pension expense beyond 2020 will depend on future investment performance, our contributions to the pension trusts, changes in discount rates and various other factors related to the covered employees in the plans. Other Post-Employment Benefit Plans Changes in significant assumptions could affect consolidated expense and benefit obligations, particularly the discount rates used to calculate such obligations: • Discount rate. The determination of the discount rate used to calculate the benefit obligations of the OPEB plans is discussed in the pension plans section above. A 100 basis point decrease (increase) in the discount rate assumption for these plans would not be material to the OPEB plans' consolidated expense and the December 31, 2019 benefit liability would increase by approximately $25 million or decrease by approximately $21 million, respectively. The Hershey Company | 2019 Form 10-K | Page 34 Business Acquisitions, Valuation and Impairment of Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets We use the acquisition method of accounting for business acquisitions. Under the acquisition method, the results of operations of the acquired business have been included in the consolidated financial statements since the respective dates of the acquisitions. The assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recorded at their respective estimated fair values at the date of the acquisition. Any excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Significant judgment is often required in estimating the fair value of assets acquired, particularly intangible assets. As a result, we normally obtain the assistance of a third-party valuation specialist in estimating fair values of tangible and intangible assets. The fair value estimates are based on available historical information and on expectations and assumptions about the future, considering the perspective of marketplace participants. While management believes those expectations and assumptions are reasonable, they are inherently uncertain. Unanticipated market or macroeconomic events and circumstances may occur, which could affect the accuracy or validity of the estimates and assumptions. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized, but instead, are evaluated for impairment annually or more often if indicators of a potential impairment are present. Our annual impairment tests are conducted at the beginning of the fourth quarter. We test goodwill for impairment by performing either a qualitative or quantitative assessment. If we choose to perform a qualitative assessment, we evaluate economic, industry and company-specific factors in assessing the fair value of the related reporting unit. If we determine that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, a quantitative test is then performed. Otherwise, no further testing is required. For those reporting units tested using a quantitative approach, we compare the fair value of each reporting unit with the carrying amount of the reporting unit, including goodwill. If the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is less than the carrying amount of the reporting unit, impairment is indicated, requiring recognition of a goodwill impairment charge for the differential (up to the carrying value of goodwill). We test individual indefinite-lived intangible assets by comparing the estimated fair values with the book values of each asset. We determine the fair value of our reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets using an income approach. Under the income approach, we calculate the fair value of our reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets based on the present value of estimated future cash flows. Considerable management judgment is necessary to evaluate the impact of operating and macroeconomic changes and to estimate the future cash flows used to measure fair value. Our estimates of future cash flows consider past performance, current and anticipated market conditions and internal projections and operating plans which incorporate estimates for sales growth and profitability, and cash flows associated with taxes and capital spending. Additional assumptions include forecasted growth rates, estimated discount rates, which may be risk-adjusted for the operating market of the reporting unit, and estimated royalty rates that would be charged for comparable branded licenses. We believe such assumptions also reflect current and anticipated market conditions and are consistent with those that would be used by other marketplace participants for similar valuation purposes. Such assumptions are subject to change due to changing economic and competitive conditions. We also have intangible assets, consisting primarily of certain trademarks, customer-related intangible assets and patents obtained through business acquisitions, that are expected to have determinable useful lives. The costs of finite-lived intangible assets are amortized to expense over their estimated lives. Our estimates of the useful lives of finite-lived intangible assets consider judgments regarding the future effects of obsolescence, demand, competition and other economic factors. We conduct impairment tests when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these finite-lived assets may not be recoverable. Undiscounted cash flow analyses are used to determine if an impairment exists. If an impairment is determined to exist, the loss is calculated based on the estimated fair value of the assets. Results of Impairment Tests At December 31, 2019, the net book value of our goodwill totaled $1,986.0 million. As it relates to our 2019 annual testing performed at the beginning of the fourth quarter, we tested all reporting units using a quantitative assessment. Based on our testing, all of our reporting units had an excess fair value well over the their respective carrying values. There were no other events or circumstances that would indicate that impairment may exist. We had no goodwill impairment charges in 2019, 2018 or 2017. The Hershey Company | 2019 Form 10-K | Page 35 In 2019, sales and operating performance associated with our KRAVE Pure Foods, Inc. (“Krave”) business were below expectations. In the fourth quarter of 2019, as part of a strategic review initiated by our leadership team, we updated our strategic forecast which projected under performance related to the Krave business primarily due to mainstream brands driving category volume and an increase in the overall competitive landscape. We deemed this to be a triggering event requiring us to test our Krave long-lived asset group for impairment. Based on our assessment, we determined that the carrying value was not recoverable and calculated an impairment loss as the excess of the asset group's carrying value over its fair value. Therefore, as a result of this testing, during the fourth quarter of 2019, we recorded an impairment charge totaling $100.1 million to write down the long-lived asset group, which predominantly consisted of customer relationship and trademark intangible assets. In February 2017, we commenced the Margin for Growth Program which includes an initiative to optimize the manufacturing operations supporting our China business. We deemed this to be a triggering event requiring us to test our China long-lived asset group for impairment by first determining whether the carrying value of the asset group was recovered by our current estimates of future cash flows associated with the asset group. Because this assessment indicated that the carrying value was not recoverable, we calculated an impairment loss as the excess of the asset group's carrying value over its fair value. The resulting impairment loss was allocated to the asset group's long-lived assets. Therefore, as a result of this testing, during the first quarter of 2017, we recorded an impairment charge totaling $105.9 million representing the portion of the impairment loss that was allocated to the distributor relationship and trademark intangible assets that had been recognized in connection with the 2014 SGM acquisition. Income Taxes We base our deferred income taxes, accrued income taxes and provision for income taxes upon income, statutory tax rates, the legal structure of our Company, interpretation of tax laws and tax planning opportunities available to us in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. We file income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction and various state and foreign jurisdictions. We are regularly audited by federal, state and foreign tax authorities; a number of years may elapse before an uncertain tax position, for which we have unrecognized tax benefits, is audited and finally resolved. From time to time, these audits result in assessments of additional tax. We maintain reserves for such assessments. We apply a more-likely-than-not threshold to the recognition and derecognition of uncertain tax positions. Accordingly, we recognize the amount of tax benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being ultimately realized upon settlement. Future changes in judgments and estimates related to the expected ultimate resolution of uncertain tax positions will affect income in the quarter of such change. While it is often difficult to predict the final outcome or the timing of resolution of any particular uncertain tax position, we believe that our unrecognized tax benefits reflect the most likely outcome. Accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits are included in income tax expense. We adjust these unrecognized tax benefits, as well as the related interest, in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as receiving audit assessments or clearing of an item for which a reserve has been established. Settlement of any particular position could require the use of cash. Favorable resolution would be recognized as a reduction to our effective income tax rate in the period of resolution. We believe it is more likely than not that the results of future operations will generate sufficient taxable income to realize the deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowances. Our valuation allowances are primarily related to U.S. capital loss carryforwards and various foreign jurisdictions' net operating loss carryforwards and other deferred tax assets for which we do not expect to realize a benefit. The Hershey Company | 2019 Form 10-K | Page 36 Item 7A.