 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Business overview The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is intended to help the reader understand Kellogg Company, our operations and our present business environment. MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes thereto contained in Item 8 of this Report, as well as Part II, 'Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 28, 2019, which provides additional information on comparisons of years 2019 and 2018. For more than 110 years, consumers have counted on Kellogg for great-tasting, high-quality and nutritious foods. These foods include snacks, such as crackers, savory snacks, toaster pastries, cereal bars and bites; and convenience foods, such as, ready-to-eat cereals, frozen waffles, veggie foods and noodles. Kellogg products are manufactured and marketed globally. Our MD&A references consumption and net sales in discussing our sales trends for certain categories and brands. We record net sales upon delivery of shipments to our customers. Consumption and share data noted within is based on Nielsen x-AOC or other comparable source, for the applicable period. Consumption refers to consumer purchases of our products from our customers. Unless otherwise noted, consumption and shipment trends are materially consistent. COVID-19 response In March 2020, the World Health Organization categorized the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) as a pandemic, and it has spread across the world. To limit the spread of COVID-19, governments took various actions to slow and otherwise control the spread of COVID-19, including the issuance of stay-at-home orders and social distancing guidelines. While many governments have eased stay-at-home orders, some governments have taken steps to reimplement restrictions. The Company has taken proactive steps to protect our people and otherwise mitigate the impact to our business. The Company’s business has been designated as “essential services”, “critical infrastructure” and the like by governments where we operate. The Company has taken numerous measures during the pandemic to fulfill our key objectives: 1) ensuring the health and safety of our employees, 2) safely producing and delivering our foods to customers and consumers, 3) supporting the communities in which we operate, and 4) maintaining financial flexibility. Our efforts have been led by the Company’s Executive Committee, a committee composed of senior leaders, and our global Crisis Management Process. As part of that process, we have worked closely with medical, regulatory and other experts as we deliver on our objectives. Employee health and safety The health and safety of our employees is our top priority. As a result, the Company has designed and implemented a number of actions across the business. From the outset of the pandemic, the Company restricted travel and visitors to its facilities, prohibited external group meetings and established quarantine procedures for any potentially exposed employees. The Company subsequently required employees who could do so to work remotely to further minimize the exposure of our employees to COVID-19. At this time, most of our office employees continue to work remotely. For those who are not able to work remotely, the Company implemented new protocols at all of our facilities to protect our employees, including temperature checks, social distancing, response plans, face coverings, contact tracing, enhanced sanitation procedures, and additional personal protection equipment Maintain our ability to produce and deliver essential food supply In addition to our efforts to keep our people safe, the Company has taken several actions to ensure that we maintain our ability to operate effectively during this pandemic, providing our foods to our customers and consumers. While we have experienced limited disruption in the operation of our facilities, we are taking the appropriate actions to ensure the continuity of our business. We are working proactively with our suppliers to maintain our supply of raw materials and packaging during this time of increased demand for our products. We have secured access to contracted labor forces. We have made incremental investments in our workforce, additional warehouse capacity and increased access to transportation so that our products are delivered in a timely manner to our customers. In conjunction with our management of production capacity, we have simplified our operations (as well as our customers' operations) by prioritizing our offerings to increase the supply of our most demanded products to our customers, as well as delaying innovation launches and commercial activities. At the same time, the Company reinforced food safety practices across our manufacturing network. 28 We have partnered with our strategic technology providers in order to maintain support for our critical business and finance systems as well as additional network bandwidth and support for the transition to a work-from-home environment. We have worked to mitigate system-related risks in this environment through heightened monitoring of cybersecurity and network capacity as well as reevaluation of contingency plans. Community support Kellogg is a company with a heart and soul, and we are working together across our company to help our food bank partners and neighbors in need. Kellogg and our charitable funds have donated cash and food to global COVID-19 hunger relief efforts. As always, through our global Kellogg’s® Better Days purpose platform, we help deliver critical nourishment to people when they need it most. Local governments have identified food security as a top priority in their fight against COVID-19. With school and business closures and “shelter-at-home” mandates, Kellogg is providing support to our food bank partners on the front-lines, helping those who may not know where their next meal is coming from. Maintain financial flexibility At this time, the COVID-19 pandemic has not materially impacted our liquidity and we anticipate current cash and operating cash flows, together with our credit facilities and other financing sources including commercial paper, credit and bond markets, will be adequate to meet our operating, investing and financing needs. We expect cash provided by operating activities of $1.6 billion and capital expenditures of approximately $500 million in 2021. We currently have $2.9 billion of unused revolving credit agreements, including $1.5 billion effective through January 2023 and $1.0 billion effective through January 2022, as well as continued access to the commercial paper markets. We are currently in compliance with all debt covenants and do not have material uncertainty about our ability to maintain compliance in future periods. We continue to utilize available capacity within the Monetization Programs to maintain financial flexibility without negatively impacting working capital. Additionally, we utilized certain aspects of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security Act, to delay the employer share of certain U.S. payroll taxes until 2021 and 2022. Our utilization does not include a government loan and is not expected to result in any restrictions on the Company’s decisions on executive compensation, payment of dividends, or share buy-back programs. As the impact of COVID-19 on the economy and our operations evolves, we will continue to assess our liquidity needs. Monitoring future impacts The severity, magnitude and duration of the current COVID-19 pandemic is uncertain and rapidly changing. The Company is actively monitoring the pandemic and related governmental actions as they continue to develop and evolve. We will adjust our mitigation strategies as necessary to address any changing health, operational or financial risks that may arise. Beginning in March 2020, the Company experienced a significant increase in demand for our retail products as consumers stocked up on food for at-home consumption in those markets. While this demand has moderated for certain products, we will continue to manage our production capacity during this period of high demand. We continue to monitor the business for adverse impacts of the pandemic, including volatility in the foreign exchange markets, reduced demand in our away from home businesses, supply-chain disruptions in certain markets, increased costs of employee safety and maintaining food supply, and lower revenues for certain emerging market countries with a higher concentration of traditional trade outlets. In the event the Company experiences adverse impacts from the above or other factors, the Company would also evaluate the need to perform interim impairment tests for the Company’s goodwill, indefinite lived intangible assets, investments in unconsolidated affiliates and property, plant and equipment. There can be no assurance that volatility and/or disruption in the global capital and credit markets will not impair our ability to access these markets on terms acceptable to us, or at all. See further discussion within Future Outlook. Segments On July 28, 2019, we completed the sale of selected cookies, fruit and fruit-flavored snacks, pie crusts, and ice cream cones businesses to Ferrero International S.A. (“Ferrero”) for $1.3 billion in cash, on a cash-free, debt-free basis and subject to a working capital adjustment mechanism. During 2020 the working capital adjustment was finalized, resulting in a reduction of the sale proceeds and recognition of a pre-tax expense in Other income and (expense) of $4 million. The operating results for these businesses were included in our North America and Latin America reportable segments prior to the sale. We manage our operations through four operating segments that are based primarily on geographic location – North America which includes the U.S. businesses and Canada; Europe which consists principally of European countries; Latin America which consists of Central and South America and includes Mexico; and AMEA (Asia Middle East Africa) which consists of Africa, Middle East, Australia and other Asian and Pacific markets. These operating segments also represent our reportable segments. 29 Non-GAAP Financial Measures This filing includes non-GAAP financial measures that we provide to management and investors that exclude certain items that we do not consider part of on-going operations. Items excluded from our non-GAAP financial measures are discussed in the "Significant items impacting comparability" section of this filing. Our management team consistently utilizes a combination of GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate business results, to make decisions regarding the future direction of our business, and for resource allocation decisions, including incentive compensation. As a result, we believe the presentation of both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures provides investors with increased transparency into financial measures used by our management team and improves investors’ understanding of our underlying operating performance and in their analysis of ongoing operating trends. All historic non-GAAP financial measures have been reconciled with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Non-GAAP financial measures used for evaluation of performance include currency-neutral and organic net sales, adjusted and currency-neutral adjusted operating profit, adjusted and currency-neutral adjusted diluted earnings per share (EPS), adjusted and currency-neutral adjusted gross profit, adjusted and currency neutral adjusted gross margin, adjusted other income (expense), and cash flow. We determine currency-neutral results by dividing or multiplying, as appropriate, the current-period local currency operating results by the currency exchange rates used to translate our financial statements in the comparable prior-year period to determine what the current period U.S. dollar operating results would have been if the currency exchange rate had not changed from the comparable prior-year period. These non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies. • Currency-neutral net sales and organic net sales : We adjust the GAAP financial measure to exclude the impact of foreign currency, resulting in currency-neutral net sales. In addition, we exclude the impact of acquisitions, divestitures, foreign currency, and differences in shipping days including the 53rd week, resulting in organic net sales. We excluded the items which we believe may obscure trends in our underlying net sales performance. By providing these non-GAAP net sales measures, management intends to provide investors with a meaningful, consistent comparison of net sales performance for the Company and each of our reportable segments for the periods presented. Management uses these non-GAAP measures to evaluate the effectiveness of initiatives behind net sales growth, pricing realization, and the impact of mix on our business results. These non-GAAP measures are also used to make decisions regarding the future direction of our business, and for resource allocation decisions. • Adjusted: gross profit, gross margin, operating profit and diluted EPS: We adjust the GAAP financial measures to exclude the effect of restructuring programs, mark-to-market adjustments for pension plans (service cost, interest cost, expected return on plan assets, and other net periodic pension costs are not excluded), commodities and certain foreign currency contracts, multi-employer pension plan withdrawal liabilities, gain/loss on the divestiture, and other costs impacting comparability resulting in adjusted. We excluded the items which we believe may obscure trends in our underlying profitability. By providing these non-GAAP profitability measures, management intends to provide investors with a meaningful, consistent comparison of the Company's profitability measures for the periods presented. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate the effectiveness of initiatives intended to improve profitability, as well as to evaluate the impacts of inflationary pressures and decisions to invest in new initiatives within each of our segments. • Currency-neutral adjusted: gross profit, gross margin, operating profit, and diluted EPS: We adjust the GAAP financial measures to exclude the effect of restructuring programs, mark-to-market adjustments for pension plans (service cost, interest cost, expected return on plan assets, and other net periodic pension costs are not excluded), commodities and certain foreign currency contracts, multi-employer pension plan withdrawal liabilities, gain/loss on divestiture, other costs impacting comparability, and foreign currency, resulting in currency-neutral adjusted. We excluded the items which we believe may obscure trends in our underlying profitability. By providing these non-GAAP profitability measures, management intends to provide investors with a meaningful, consistent comparison of the Company's profitability measures for the periods presented. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate the effectiveness of initiatives intended to improve profitability, as well as to evaluate the impacts of inflationary pressures and decisions to invest in new initiatives within each of our segments. 30 • Adjusted effective income tax rate: We adjust the GAAP financial measures to exclude the effect of restructuring programs, mark-to-market adjustments for pension plans (service cost, interest cost, expected return on plan assets, and other net periodic pension costs are not excluded), commodities and certain foreign currency contracts, multi-employer pension plan withdrawal liabilities, the gain/loss on divestiture, and other costs impacting comparability. We excluded the items which we believe may obscure trends in our pre-tax income and the related tax effect of those items on our adjusted effective income tax rate, and other impacts to tax expense, including U.S. Tax Reform and certain out-of-period adjustments, on our adjusted effective income tax rate. By providing this non-GAAP measure, management intends to provide investors with a meaningful, consistent comparison of the Company's effective tax rate, excluding the pre-tax income and tax effect of the items noted above, for the periods presented. Management uses this non-GAAP measure to monitor the effectiveness of initiatives in place to optimize our global tax rate. • Net debt : Defined as the sum of long-term debt, current maturities of long-term debt and notes payable, less cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities. With respect to net debt, cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities are subtracted from the GAAP measure, total debt liabilities, because they could be used to reduce the Company’s debt obligations. Company management and investors use this non-GAAP measure to evaluate changes to the Company's capital structure and credit quality assessment. • Cash flow: Defined as net cash provided by operating activities reduced by expenditures for property additions. Cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. We use this non-GAAP financial measure of cash flow to focus management and investors on the amount of cash available for debt repayment, dividend distributions, acquisition opportunities, and share repurchases once all of the Company’s business needs and obligations are met. Additionally, certain performance-based compensation includes a component of this non-GAAP measure. These measures have not been calculated in accordance with GAAP and should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP reporting measures. Significant items impacting comparability Mark-to-market accounting for pension plans, commodities and certain foreign currency contracts We recognize mark-to-market adjustments for pension plans, commodity contracts, and certain foreign currency contracts as incurred. Actuarial gains/losses for pension plans were recognized in the year they occur. Changes between contract and market prices for commodities contracts and certain foreign currency contracts result in gains/losses that were recognized in the quarter they occur. We recorded a total pre-tax mark-to-market charge of $162 million for 2020, a total pre-tax market-to-market charge of $104 million for 2019 and a total pre-tax mark-to-market charge of $343 million for 2018. Included within the aforementioned totals was a pre-tax mark-to-market charge for pension plans of $154 million for 2020, pre-tax mark-to-market charge for pension plans of $98 million for 2019, and a pre-tax mark-to-market charge for pension plans of $335 million for 2018. Project K In 2019, the Company completed implementation of all Project K initiatives. We recorded pre-tax charges related to this program of $54 million in 2019 and $143 million in 2018. See the Restructuring and cost reduction activities section for more information. Brexit impacts During 2019, with the uncertainty associated with the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union (EU), commonly referred to as Brexit, we incurred certain costs to proactively prepare for the potential adverse impacts of Brexit, such as delays at ports of entry and departure. As a result, we incurred pre-tax charges of $9 million in 2019 and a pre-tax charge of $3 million in 2018. Business and portfolio realignment One-time costs related to divestitures and acquisitions, including the divestiture of our cookies, fruit snacks, pie crusts, and ice-cream cone businesses; reorganizations in support of our Deploy for Growth priorities and a reshaped portfolio; and investments in enhancing capabilities prioritized by our Deploy for Growth strategy. As a result, we incurred pre-tax charges, primarily related to reorganizations of $38 million in 2020, $156 million in 2019 and $5 million in 2018. 31 Multi-employer pension plan exit liability During the third quarter of 2019, the Company incurred a pre-tax charge of $132 million due to withdrawing from two multi-employer pension plans. During the second quarter of 2020, the Company recorded a pre-tax gain of approximately $5 million related to the settlement of one multi-employer pension plan withdrawal liability from the prior year. Divestitures On July 28, 2019, the Company completed its sale of selected cookies, fruit and fruit flavored snacks, pie crusts, and ice cream cones businesses to Ferrero for approximately $1.3 billion in cash, subject to a working capital adjustment mechanism. Both the total assets and net assets of the businesses were approximately $1.3 billion, resulting in a net pre-tax gain of $38 million during the third quarter, recorded in other income and (expense). Additionally, the company recognized curtailment gains related to the divestiture totaling $17 million in our U.S. pension and nonpension postretirement plans. During 2020 the working capital adjustment was finalized, resulting in a reduction of the sale proceeds and recognition of a pre-tax expense in Other income and (expense) of $4 million. The operating results for the divested businesses were primarily included in the North America reporting segment prior to the sale. Reported net sales for the divested businesses totaled $562 million for the first eight months of the year ended December 28, 2019 and $308 million for the last five months of the year ended December 29, 2018. Additionally, during the fourth quarter of 2020, the Company divested its majority ownership of a small business in our Europe reportable segment, resulting in a pre-tax loss of $4 million. Net sales in 2020, totaled approximately $11 million for the business divested. Acquisitions In May of 2018, the Company acquired an incremental 1% ownership interest in Multipro, which along with concurrent changes to the shareholders' agreement, resulted in the Company now having a 51% controlling interest in and began consolidating Multipro, a leading distributor of a variety of food products in Nigeria and Ghana. In our AMEA reportable segment, year ended December 28, 2019, the acquisition added $271 million in net sales that impacted the comparability of 2018 reported results. Impact of shipping day differences including 53rd week During the fourth quarter of 2020, the Company had a difference in shipping days resulting from an additional week of business during the fiscal year. This impact increased reported net sales by $174 million for the year ended January 2, 2021. Out-of-period adjustment During the fourth quarter of 2019, the Company recorded an out-of-period adjustment to correct an error related to a prior year which increased income tax expense by $39 million. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. U.S. Tax Reform During the third quarter of 2020, the Company reversed a liability for uncertain tax positions of $32 million, related to th e finalization of a tax examination. The liability was related to the Company's estimate of the transition tax liability in conjunction with the finalization of accounting under Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, Income Tax Accounting Implications of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Foreign currency translation We evaluate the operating results of our business on a currency-neutral basis. We determine currency-neutral operating results by dividing or multiplying, as appropriate, the current period local currency operating results by the currency exchange rates used to translate our financial statements in the comparable prior year period to determine what the current period U.S. dollar operating results would have been if the currency exchange rate had not changed from the comparable prior-year period. Organic net sales exclude the impact of acquisitions, including the foreign currency impact calculated by applying the prior year foreign currency rates to current period results. 32 Financial results For the full year ended January 2, 2021, our reported net sales increased 1.4% versus the prior year as strong organic net sales growth and the benefit of an additional week of business was partially offset by the impact of lapping results from the businesses divested at the end of July 2019, and unfavorable foreign currency. D emand for packaged foods for at-home consumption remained elevated as a result of the pandemic, although moderating in the back half of the year. This growth more than offset a decline in away-from-home channel net sales. Organic net sales increased 6.0% from the prior year after excluding the impact of the 53rd week, the divestiture, and foreign currency. Reported operating profit increased almost 26% versus the prior year due primarily to substantially lower charges for multi-employer pension plan withdrawal, business and portfolio realignment, and Project K, and higher net sales, partially offset by the impact of the divestiture, and incremental COVID-19-related costs. Currency-neutral adjusted operating profit increased 3.5%, after excluding the impact of the multi-employer pension plan withdrawal, Project K, and business and portfolio realignment. Reported diluted EPS of $3.63 for the year was up 30% compared to the prior year EPS of $2.80 due primarily to higher operating profit and a lower tax rate due to the release of reserves for uncertain tax positions related to U.S. Tax reform. These impacts were partially offset by increased brand building investment, higher performance-based compensation costs, and the prior year gain on the divestiture. Currency-neutral adjusted diluted EPS of $4.03 for the year increased 2.3% compared to prior year EPS of $3.94, after excluding the impact of multi-employer pension plan withdrawal, gain/loss on divestiture, U.S. Tax Reform, Project K, and business and portfolio realignment. Reconciliation of certain non-GAAP Financial Measures Note: Tables may not foot due to rounding. For more information on reconciling items in the table above, please refer to the Significant items impacting comparability section. * Represents the estimated income tax effect on the reconciling items, using weighted-average statutory tax rates, depending upon the applicable jurisdiction. 33 Net sales and operating profit 2020 compared to 2019 The following tables provide an analysis of net sales and operating profit performance for 2020 versus 2019: Note: Tables may not foot due to rounding. For more information on reconciling items in the table above, please refer to the Significant items impacting comparability section. 34 Note: Tables may not foot due to rounding. For more information on reconciling items in the table above, please refer to the Significant items impacting comparability section. North America Reported net sales decreased 0.4% versus the prior year, due primarily to the absence of results from the businesses divested in July 2019, partially offset by strong organic growth and the benefit from the 53rd week. Net sales growth was driven by the acceleration of demand for snacks, cereal, and frozen food as consumers increased purchases of food for at-home consumption due to the pandemic, moderating beginning in the third quarter. This acceleration of demand was partly offset by a related decline in net sales in away-from-home channels and, to a lesser extent, the timing of shipments in certain categories during the 4th quarter. Organic net sales increased 5.1% after excluding the impact of the divestiture, foreign currency, and the 53rd week. 35 North America snacks net sales decreased 7.2% due to the absence of the divested businesses, whose results were seasonally weighted to the first half of the year, partially offset by the benefit of the 53rd week. Organic net sales increased 3.3% due to high demand for packaged foods for at-home consumption as a result of the pandemic partly offset by a related decline in net sales in away-from-home channels. North America cereal and frozen foods net sales grew 8.5% and 9.6%, respectively, due to elevated demand for packaged foods for at-home consumption as a result of the pandemic. North America reported operating profit increased 21% due primarily to higher net sales and the lapping of prior year charges for multi-employer pension plan withdrawal, business and portfolio realignment and Project K costs, partially offset by the absence of results from the divested businesses, and incremental COVID-19-related costs. Currency-neutral adjusted operating profit increased 3.1%, after excluding the impact of multi-employer pension plan withdrawal, business and portfolio realignment, Project K and foreign currency. Europe Reported net sales increased 6.7% due to elevated demand for at-home consumption of cereal and the benefit of the 53rd week, partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency. Organic net sales increased 5.1%. Cereal net sales growth was driven largely by accelerated consumption in our developed markets as a result of the pandemic. Snacks net sales declined slightly as a result of reduced demand for on-the-go foods and pack formats during the pandemic and a reduction in advertising and promotional activity in the first half of the year related to Pringles due to the cancellation of a major sporting event. Reported operating profit increased 35% due primarily to higher net sales and lower business and portfolio realignment costs partially offset by incremental COVID-19-related costs. Currency-neutral adjusted operating profit increased 10% after excluding the impact of business and portfolio realignment, Project K, and foreign currency. Latin America Reported net sales decreased 2.8% due primarily to the impact of unfavorable foreign currency. Organic net sales increased 12%, after excluding the impact of foreign currency. Organic net sales growth was driven by higher cereal sales, which accelerated during the pandemic as consumers increased purchases of food for at-home consumption in modern trade channels as a result of the pandemic. Cereal net sales growth was led by Mexico and Caricam. Snacks net sales declined on a reported basis due primarily to unfavorable foreign currency. However, Pringles posted strong consumption and share performance, led by Mexico and Brazil. Reported operating profit increased 14% due to higher net sales and lapping of prior year Project K costs, partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency. Currency-neutral adjusted operating profit increased 11% after excluding the impact of foreign currency, Project K, and business and portfolio realignment. AMEA Reported net sales improved 5.0% due to growth in cereal, noodles, and Pringles, partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency. Organic net sales increased 7.7% after excluding the impact of foreign currency and the 53rd week. Cereal net sales growth for the region was driven by elevated demand for at-home consumption of our products in developed markets as well as emerging markets. Noodles net sales growth during the year was due primarily to the expansion of our business in Africa and the Middle East. Reported operating profit increased 3.5% due primarily to the impact of higher net sales, which more than offset the prior year reversal of indirect excise tax liabilities resulting from participation in a tax amnesty program, and 36 unfavorable foreign currency impacts. Currency-neutral adjusted operating profit increased 6.1%, after excluding the impact of business and portfolio realignment, Project K, and foreign currency. Corporate Reported operating profit increased $4 million versus the prior year due primarily to lower business and portfolio realignment costs partially offset by higher performance-based compensation costs. Currency-neutral adjusted operating profit decreased $35 million from the prior year after excluding the impact of business and portfolio realignment and foreign currency. 2019 compared to 2018 The following tables provide an analysis of net sales and operating profit performance for 2019 versus 2018: Note: Tables may not foot due to rounding. For more information on reconciling items in the table above, please refer to the Significant items impacting comparability section. 37 Note: Tables may not foot due to rounding. *Corporate in 2019 includes the cost of certain global research and development activities that were previously included in the North America reportable segment in 2018 that totaled approximately $48 million. For more information on reconciling items in the table above, please refer to the Significant items impacting comparability section. North America Reported net sales decreased 3.4% versus the prior year due primarily to the absence of results from the businesses divested in July 2019 partially offset by favorable price/mix. Organic net sales increased 0.2% after excluding the impact of the divestiture and foreign currency. 38 North America snacks reported net sales decreased 4.1% due primarily to the divestiture. Organic net sales increased 2.2% from the prior year due primarily to sustained momentum and innovations in key brands, including Cheez-It, Rice Krispies Treats, Pringles and Pop-Tarts partially offset by the first quarter supplier-related recall of RXBAR. North America cereal reported net sales declined by 4.1% largely due to reduced advertising and promotional activity during two waves of pack-size harmonization during the first half of the year as well as softness in Special K and Mini-Wheats. North America frozen foods reported net sales increased by 1.6%, lapping strong year-ago growth and negative impact of phasing out certain SKU’s. More than offsetting these factors was accelerated growth in MorningStar Farms as net sales, consumption, and share grew during the year on innovation and strong commercial programs. North America reported operating profit decreased 13% due primarily to higher business and portfolio realignment charges, the multi-employer pension plan exit liability and the absence of results from the businesses divested in July 2019 partially offset by lower Project K costs. Currency-neutral adjusted operating profit declined 4.9% as growth in the base business was more than offset by the impact of the divestiture. Additionally, North America operating profit benefited from the transfer of certain global research and development activities from North America to Corporate at the beginning of 2019. Europe Reported net sales decreased 1.4% due to unfavorable foreign currency partially offset by higher volume and favorable pricing/mix. Organic net sales increased 3.3% after excluding the impact of foreign currency. Growth was driven by snacks, led by Pringles, with increased net sales and consumption in key markets behind innovation, effective brand-building, and new pack formats. Cereal net sales decreased slightly, moderating from recent years' declines. Our share was relatively flat across the region. As reported operating profit decreased 11% due primarily to higher one-time costs and unfavorable foreign currency. Currency-neutral adjusted operating profit increased 4.6% after excluding the impact of foreign currency and one-time costs. Latin America Reported net sales decreased 0.7% due to unfavorable foreign currency and the impact of the divestiture, partially offset by favorable pricing/mix. Organic net sales increased 3.2% after excluding the impact of the divestiture and foreign currency, led by growth in Mexico and Brazil. Cereal net sales growth in Mexico for the year, despite lapping strong prior year comparisons. Cereal net sales in Brazil also increased despite category softness. Snacks net sales growth was led by Pringles, led by increased net sales and consumption growth in Mexico for the year. Reported operating profit decreased 17% due primarily to higher input costs and investments as well as higher one-time costs and unfavorable foreign currency. Currency-neutral adjusted operating profit decreased 10% after excluding the impact of foreign currency and one-time costs. 39 AMEA Reported net sales improved 20% primarily due to a full year of Multipro results, Pringles growth across the region, and favorable pricing/mix, partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency. Organic net sales increased 7.4% after excluding the acquisition impact of Multipro and foreign currency. Multipro posted double-digit reported net sales growth during the year and contributed to organic growth beginning in May, lapping the 2018 consolidation of the business. Snacks posted solid growth led by sustained momentum in Pringles, which grew net sales and consumption collectively across the region. Reported operating profit increased 12% due to a full year of Multipro results, higher organic net sales, and the reversal of indirect excise tax liabilities largely the result of participating in a tax amnesty program, partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency. Currency-neutral adjusted operating profit improved 14% after excluding the impact of foreign currency, Project K, and business and portfolio realignment. Corporate Reported operating profit decreased $98 million versus the prior year due primarily to higher business and portfolio realignment costs, unfavorable mark-to-market impacts, and the transfer of certain global research and development activities from North America to Corporate at the beginning of 2019. These impacts were partially offset by lower Project K costs. Currency-neutral adjusted operating profit decreased $48 million after excluding the impact of mark-to-market, Project K, and business and portfolio realignment costs. Margin performance 2020 versus 2019 gross margin performance was as follows: Note: Tables may not foot due to rounding. For information on the reconciling items in the table above, please refer to the Significant items impacting comparability section. (a) Reported gross margin as a percentage of net sales. Gross margin is equal to net sales less cost of goods sold. Reported gross margin for the year ended January 2, 2021 increased 200 basis points due primarily to operating leverage as a result of higher net sales, lower charges for multi-employer pension plan withdrawal, and Project K, partially offset by incremental COVID-19-related costs, and unfavorable foreign currency. Currency-neutral adjusted gross margin increased 60 basis points compared to the prior year after eliminating the impact of multi-employer pension plan withdrawal, Project K, and foreign currency. 40 Our 2020 and 2019 currency-neutral adjusted gross profit is reconciled to the most comparable U.S. GAAP measures as follows: Note: Tables may not foot due to rounding. For more information on the reconciling items in the table above, please refer to the Significant items impacting comparability section. (a) Gross profit is equal to net sales less cost of goods sold. 2019 versus 2018 gross margin performance was as follows: Note: Tables may not foot due to rounding. For more information on reconciling items in the table above, please refer to the Significant items impacting comparability section. (a) Reported gross margin as a percentage of net sales. Gross margin is equal to net sales less cost of goods sold. Reported gross margin for the year ended December 28, 2019, was unfavorable 260 basis points due primarily to the recognition of a $132 million liability related to our exit from two multi-employer pension plans. Additionally, margins were negatively impacted by the consolidation of Multipro results, higher input costs, mix shifts and costs related to growth in new pack formats. Currency-neutral adjusted gross margin was unfavorable 190 basis points compared to the prior year after eliminating the impact of the multi-employer pension plan exit liability, mark-to-market, Project K, and business and portfolio realignment. Our 2019 and 2018 currency-neutral adjusted gross profit is reconciled to the most comparable U.S. GAAP measures as follows: Note: Tables may not foot due to rounding. For more information on reconciling items in the table above, please refer to the Significant items impacting comparability section. (a) Gross profit is equal to net sales less cost of goods sold. 41 Restructuring programs We view our restructuring and cost reduction activities as part of our operating principles to provide greater visibility in achieving our long-term profit growth targets. Initiatives undertaken are currently expected to recover cash implementation costs within a three to five-year period of completion. Upon completion (or as each major stage is completed in the case of multi-year programs), the project begins to deliver cash savings and/or reduced depreciation. During 2019, the Company announced a reorganization plan for the European reportable segment designed to simplify the organization, increase organizational efficiency, and enhance key processes. Since inception, the project has resulted in cumulative pretax net charges of approximately $37 million, including certain non-cash credits. Cash costs are approximately $50 million. The total charges include severance and other termination benefits and charges related to relocation, pension curtailment gains, third party legal and consulting fees, and contract termination costs. During 2020, the Company recorded total net charges of $(1) million related to this initiative, with $7 million recorded in SG&A expense and $(8) million recorded in OIE. This project is substantially complete as of the end of fiscal year 2020. Total charges and cash costs were in line with expectations. Also during 2019, the Company announced a reorganization plan which primarily impacts the North America reportable segment. The reorganization plan is designed to simplify the organization that supports the remaining North America reportable segment after the divestiture and related transition. Since inception, the overall project resulted in cumulative pretax charges of approximately $23 million. Cash costs approximated the pretax charges. Total charges include severance and other termination benefits and charges related to third party consulting fees. During 2020, the Company recorded total charges of $2 million related to this initiative during 2020. This project is substantially complete as of the end of fiscal year 2020. Total charges and cash costs were in line with expectations. In addition to the projects discussed above, during 2020 the Company incurred restructuring costs in each of its reportable segments related to various reorganization and simplification initiatives and supply chain optimization projects. The Company recorded total charges of $28 million related to these initiatives, including $6 million in COGS and $22 million in SG&A expense. These costs primarily relate to severance and other termination benefits. Project K As of the end of 2019, the Company completed implementation of all Project K initiatives. Total project charges, after-tax cash costs and annual savings delivered by Project K were in line with expectations. Cumulatively, Project K resulted in total pre-tax charges of approximately $1.6 billion, with after-tax cash costs, including incremental capital investments of approximately $1.2 billion. Annual cost savings generated from Project K are approximately $700 million. These savings were realized primarily in selling, general and administrative expense with additional benefit realized in gross profit as cost of goods sold savings are partially offset by negative volume and price impacts resulting from go-to-market business model changes. The overall savings profile of the project reflects our go-to-market initiatives that will impact both selling, general and administrative expense and gross profit. Cost savings have been utilized to offset inflation and fund investments in areas such as in-store execution, sales capabilities, including adding sales representatives, and in the design and quality of our products. We have also invested in production capacity in developing and emerging markets, and in global category teams. Refer to Note 5 within Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information related to Project K and other restructuring activities. Foreign currency translation The reporting currency for our financial statements is the U.S. dollar. Certain of our assets, liabilities, expenses and revenues are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, primarily in the euro, British pound, Mexican peso, Australian dollar, Canadian dollar, Brazilian Real, Nigerian Naira, and Russian ruble. To prepare our consolidated financial statements, we must translate those assets, liabilities, expenses and revenues into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rates. As a result, increases and decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against these other currencies will affect the amount of these items in our consolidated financial statements, even if their value has not changed in their original currency. This could have significant impact on our results if such increase or decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar is substantial. 42 Interest expense Interest expense was $281 million and $284 million for the years ended January 2, 2021 and December 28, 2019, respectively. Debt redemption costs included within interest expense for the years ended January 2, 2021 and December 28, 2019, totaled $20 million and $16 million, respectively. Interest expense capitalized as part of the construction cost of fixed assets was immaterial for both periods. The decrease from the prior year is due primarily to lower average debt outstanding. Interest income (recorded in other income (expense), net) was $21 million and $24 million for the years ended January 2, 2021 and December 28, 2019, respectively. Income taxes Our reported effective tax rate for 2020 and 2019 was 20.2% and 24.6%, respectively. The 2020 effective income tax rate was favorably impacted by the reversal of a liability for uncertain tax positions of $32 million, resulting from the finalization of a tax examination during the third quarter. The reserves were related to the Company's estimate of the transition tax liability in conjunction with the finalization of accounting under Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, Income Tax Accounting Implications of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. The 2019 effective tax rate was unfavorably impacted by a permanent basis difference in the assets sold to Ferrero as well as an out-of-period correction. During the fourth quarter of 2019, we recorded an out-of-period adjustment to correct an error in the tax rate applied to a deferred tax asset arising from an intellectual property transfer in a prior year. The adjustment increased income tax expense and decreased deferred tax assets by $39 million, respectively. We determined the adjustment to be immaterial to our Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 28, 2019 and related prior annual and quarterly periods. Adjusted effective tax rates for 2020 and 2019 and were 22.2% and 19.5%, respectively. The following table provides a reconciliation of reported to adjusted income taxes and effective income tax rate for 2020 and 2019. Note: Tables may not foot due to rounding. For more information on reconciling items in the table above, please refer to the Significant items impacting comparability section. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could impact the expected effective income tax rate as it is dependent upon U.S. dollar earnings of foreign subsidiaries doing business in various countries with differing statutory rates. Additionally, the rate could be impacted by tax legislation and if pending uncertain tax matters, including tax positions that could be affected by planning initiatives, are resolved more or less favorably than we currently expect. 43 Brexit The United Kingdom (UK) left the European Union on January 31, 2020. Following the conclusion of the transition period on December 31, 2020, the UK exited the European Union's Custom Union and Single Market moving onto trading terms consistent with the EU-UK Trade and Cooperation Agreement. Specific operational and financial impacts of Brexit continue to evolve and uncertainty remains relating to its impact on local and international markets and the flow of goods and materials across borders. While we do not expect such impacts to be material to the financial trends of our European and Consolidated businesses, we continue to monitor and evaluate potential impacts, including the following: • Net sales could be negatively impacted by reduced efficiency in processing of product shipments between the United Kingdom and other countries resulting in insufficient products in the appropriate market for sale to customers, • Cost of goods sold could increase due to increased costs related to incremental warehousing and logistics services required to adequately service our customers, • Divergence in implementation of regulatory requirements or disagreements on the trade terms between the European union and the UK could result in unexpected delays, negatively impacting our ability to service customers in a timely and cost-effective manner. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES At this time, the COVID-19 pandemic has not materially impacted our liquidity and we anticipate current cash and operating cash flows, together with our credit facilities and other financing sources including commercial paper, credit and bond markets, will be adequate to meet our operating, investing and financing needs. We expect cash provided by operating activities of $1.6 billion and capital expenditures of approximately $500 million in 2021. We currently have $2.9 billion of unused revolving credit agreements, including $1.5 billion effective through January 2023 and $1.0 billion effective through January 2022, as well as continued access to the commercial paper markets. We are currently in compliance with all debt covenants and do not have material uncertainty about our ability to maintain compliance in future periods. We continue to utilize available capacity within the Monetization Programs to maintain financial flexibility without negatively impacting working capital. Additionally, we utilized certain aspects of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security Act, to delay the employer share of certain U.S. payroll taxes until 2021 and 2022. Our utilization does not include a government loan and is not expected to result in any restrictions on the Company’s decisions on executive compensation, payment of dividends, or share buy-back programs. As the impact of COVID-19 on the economy and our operations evolves, we will continue to assess our liquidity needs. Our principal source of liquidity is operating cash flows supplemented by borrowings for major acquisitions and other significant transactions. Our cash-generating capability is one of our fundamental strengths and provides us with substantial financial flexibility in meeting operating and investing needs. We have historically reported negative working capital primarily as the result of our focus to improve core working capital by reducing our levels of trade receivables and inventory while extending the timing of payment of our trade payables. The impacts of the extended customer terms programs and of the monetization programs are included in our calculation of core working capital and are largely offsetting. These programs are all part of our ongoing working capital management. We periodically monitor our supplier payment terms to assess whether our terms are competitive and in line with local market terms. To the extent that such assessment indicates that our supplier payment terms are not aligned with local market terms, we may seek to adjust our terms, including extending or shortening our payment due dates as appropriate. Supplier payment term modifications did not have a material impact on our cash flows during 2020, and are not expected to have a material impact in 2021. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness which results in current maturities of long-term debt and notes payable which can have a significant impact on working capital as a result of the timing of these required payments. These factors, coupled with the use of our ongoing cash flows from operations to service our debt obligations, pay dividends, fund acquisition opportunities, and repurchase our common stock, reduce our working capital amounts. We had negative working capital of $1.8 billion and $1.3 billion as of January 2, 2021 and December 28, 2019, respectively. In conjunction with the July 28, 2019 closing of the sale of selected cookies, fruit and fruit-flavored snacks, pie crusts, and ice cream cones businesses to Ferrero for approximately $1.3 billion in cash, after-tax proceeds of 44 approximately $1.0 billion were used to redeem outstanding debt, which reduced our leverage and provides additional financial flexibility for future operating and investing needs. We believe that our operating cash flows, together with our credit facilities and other available debt financing, including commercial paper, will be adequate to meet our operating, investing and financing needs in the foreseeable future. However, there can be no assurance that volatility and/or disruption in the global capital and credit markets will not impair our ability to access these markets on terms acceptable to us, or at all. The following table sets forth a summary of our cash flows: Operating activities The principal source of our operating cash flows is net earnings, primarily cash receipts from the sale of our products, net of costs to manufacture and market our products. Net cash provided by our operating activities for 2020 totaled $1,986 million compared to $1,176 million in the prior year. The increase is due primarily to increased profitability, and lower cash outflows related to restructuring and business realignment. Our cash conversion cycle (defined as days of inventory and trade receivables outstanding less days of trade payables outstanding, based on a trailing 12 month average), is approximately negative 11 days and negative 5 days for 2020 and 2019, respectively. Core working capital in 2020 averaged 1.2% of net sales compared to 1.7% in 2019. The improvement from the prior year is due primarily to improvement in the number of days of trade payables outstanding which results from a decrease in charges related to prior restructuring activity. Our total pension and postretirement benefit plan funding amounted to $32 million and $28 million for the years ended January 2, 2021 and December 28, 2019, respectively. The Pension Protection Act (PPA), and subsequent regulations, determines defined benefit plan minimum funding requirements in the United States. We believe that we will not be required to make any contributions under PPA requirements until 2022 or beyond. Our projections concerning timing of PPA funding requirements are subject to change primarily based on general market conditions affecting trust asset performance, future discount rates based on average yields of high quality corporate bonds and our decisions regarding certain elective provisions of the PPA. We currently project that we will make total U.S. and foreign benefit plan contributions in 2021 of approximately $25 million. Actual 2021 contributions could be different from our current projections, as influenced by our decision to undertake discretionary funding of our benefit trusts versus other competing investment priorities, future changes in government requirements, trust asset performance, renewals of union contracts, or higher-than-expected health care claims cost experience. We measure cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities reduced by expenditures for property additions. We use this non-GAAP financial measure of cash flow to focus management and investors on the amount of cash available over time for debt repayment, dividend distributions, acquisition opportunities, and share repurchases. Our cash flow metric is reconciled to the most comparable GAAP measure, as follows: Investing activities Our net cash used in investing activities for 2020 totaled $585 million compared to cash provided of $774 million in 2019. The decrease is due primarily to proceeds from the sale of selected cookies, fruit and fruit-flavored snacks, pie crusts, and ice cream cones businesses to Ferrero for approximately $1.3 billion in cash in the prior year. 45 Capital spending in 2020 included investments in our supply chain infrastructure, including manufacturing capacity expansions in multiple markets and categories and initiatives targeting waste reductions and productivity improvements. Cash paid for additions to properties as a percentage of net sales was 3.7% and 4.3% in 2020 and 2019, respectively. Financing activities Our net cash used in financing activities was $1,388 million and $1,905 for 2020 and 2019, respectively. The decrease in cash used is due primarily to the issuance of $500 million of ten-year Notes in May 2020. Total debt was $7.5 billion and $7.9 billion at year-end 2020 and 2019, respectively. The following table reflects net debt amounts: In May of 2020, we issued $500 million of ten-year 2.10% Notes due 2030, resulting in net proceeds after debt discount of $496 million. The proceeds from these notes were used for general corporate purposes, including the payment of offering related fees and expenses, repayment of a portion of the $600 million 4.00% Notes due 2020 upon maturity, and repayment of a portion of commercial paper borrowings. The Notes contain customary covenants that limit the ability of the Company and its restricted subsidiaries (as defined) to incur certain liens or enter into certain sale and lease-back transactions, as well as a change of control provision. In December of 2020, we redeemed $198 million of our 3.250% Senior Notes due 2021 and $358 million of our 3.125% Senior Notes due 2022. Additionally, the remaining balance of the $600 million 4.00% Notes due 2020 was redeemed upon maturity. In August 2019, we redeemed $191 million of our 4.15% U.S. Dollar Notes due November 2019, $248 million of our 4.00% U.S. Dollar Notes due 2020, $202 million of our 3.25% U.S. Dollar Notes due 2021, and $50 million of our 2.65% U.S. Dollar Notes due 2023. In September 2019, we redeemed $309 million of our 4.15% U.S. Dollar Notes due November 2019, the remaining principal balance subsequent to the August redemption. We paid quarterly dividends to shareholders totaling $2.28 per share in 2020 versus $2.26 per share in 2019. On February 19, 2021, the Board of Directors declared a dividend of $.57 per common share, payable on March 15, 2021 to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 2, 2021. We entered into an unsecured Five-Year Credit Agreement in January 2018, allowing us to borrow, on a revolving credit basis, up to $1.5 billion and expiring in January 2023. In January 2021, we entered into an unsecured 364-Day Credit Agreement to borrow, on a revolving credit basis, up to $1.0 billion at any time outstanding, to replace the $1.0 billion 364-day facility that expired in January 2021. The Five-Year and 364 Day Credit Agreements which had no outstanding borrowings as January 2, 2021, contain customary covenants and warranties, including specified restrictions on indebtedness, liens and a specified interest expense coverage ratio. If an event of default occurs, then, to the extent permitted, the administrative agents may terminate the commitments under the credit facilities, accelerate any outstanding loans under the agreements, and demand the deposit of cash collateral equal to the lender's letter of credit exposure plus interest. The Company was in compliance with all financial covenants contained in these agreements at January 2, 2021. 46 Our Notes contain customary covenants that limit the ability of the Company and its restricted subsidiaries (as defined) to incur certain liens or enter into certain sale and lease-back transactions and also contain a change of control provision. There are no significant restrictions on the payment of dividends. We were in compliance with all covenants as of January 2, 2021. The Notes do not contain acceleration of maturity clauses that are dependent on credit ratings. A change in our credit ratings could limit our access to the U.S. short-term debt market and/or increase the cost of refinancing long-term debt in the future. However, even under these circumstances, we would continue to have access to our 364-Day Credit Facility, which expires in January 2022, as well as our Five-Year Credit Agreement, which expires in January 2023. This source of liquidity is unused and available on an unsecured basis, although we do not currently plan to use it. We monitor the financial strength of our third-party financial institutions, including those that hold our cash and cash equivalents as well as those who serve as counterparties to our credit facilities, our derivative financial instruments, and other arrangements. We continue to believe that we will be able to meet our interest and principal repayment obligations and maintain our debt covenants for the foreseeable future, while still meeting our operational needs, including the pursuit of select acquisitions. This will be accomplished through our strong cash flow, our short-term borrowings, and our maintenance of credit facilities on a global basis. Monetization and Accounts Payable programs We have a program in which customers could extend their payment terms in exchange for the elimination of early payment discounts (Extended Terms Program). In order to mitigate the net working capital impact of the Extended Terms Program for discrete customers, we entered into agreements to sell, on a revolving basis, certain trade accounts receivable balances to third party financial institutions (Monetization Programs). Transfers under the Monetization Programs are accounted for as sales of receivables resulting in the receivables being de-recognized from our Consolidated Balance Sheet. The Monetization Programs provide for the continuing sale of certain receivables on a revolving basis until terminated by either party; however the maximum funding from receivables that may be sold at any time is currently $1,033 million, but may be increased or decreased as customers move in or out of the Extended Terms Program and as additional financial institutions move in or out of the Monetization Programs. Accounts receivable sold of $783 million and $774 million remained outstanding under this arrangement as of January 2, 2021 and December 28, 2019, respectively. The Monetization Programs are designed to directly offset the impact the Extended Terms Program would have on the days-sales-outstanding (DSO) metric that is critical to the effective management of the Company's accounts receivable balance and overall working capital. Current DSO levels within North America are consistent with DSO levels prior to the execution of the Extended Term Program and Monetization Programs. Refer to Note 2 within Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information related to the sale of accounts receivable. We have agreements with third parties (Accounts Payable Program) to provide accounts payable tracking systems which facilitate participating suppliers’ ability to monitor and, if elected, sell our payment obligations to designated third-party financial institutions. Participating suppliers may, at their sole discretion, make offers to sell one or more of our payment obligations prior to their scheduled due dates at a discounted price to participating financial institutions. Our goal is to capture overall supplier savings, in the form of payment terms or vendor funding, and the agreements facilitate the suppliers’ ability to sell payment obligations, while providing them with greater working capital flexibility. We have no economic interest in the sale of these suppliers’ receivables and no direct financial relationship with the financial institutions concerning these services. Our obligations to our suppliers, including amounts due and scheduled payment dates, are not impacted by suppliers’ decisions to sell amounts under the arrangements. However, our right to offset balances due from suppliers against payment obligations is restricted by the agreements for those payment obligations that have been sold by suppliers. Refer to Note 1 within Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information related to accounts payable. If financial institutions were to terminate their participation in the Monetization Programs and we are not able to modify related customer payment terms, working capital could be negatively impacted. Additionally, working capital 47 could be negatively impacted if we shorten our supplier payment terms as a result of supplier negotiations. For suppliers participating in the Accounts Payable Programs, financial institutions may terminate their participation or we could experience a downgrade in our credit rating that could result in higher costs to suppliers. If working capital is negatively impacted as a result of these events and we were unable to secure alternative programs, we may have to utilize our various financing arrangements for short-term liquidity or increase our long-term borrowings. OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS AND CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS Off-balance sheet arrangements At January 2, 2021, we did not have any material off-balance sheet arrangements. Contractual obligations The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at January 2, 2021: (a) Includes interest payments on our long-term debt and payments on our interest rate swaps. Interest calculated on our variable rate debt was forecasted using the LIBOR forward rate curve as of January 2, 2021. (b) The total expected cash payments on our finance leases include interest expense totaling less than $1 million over the periods presented above. (c) Operating leases represent the minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases. (d) Purchase obligations consist primarily of fixed commitments for raw materials to be utilized in the normal course of business and for marketing, advertising and other services. The amounts presented in the table do not include items already recorded in accounts payable or other current liabilities at year-end 2020, nor does the table reflect cash flows we are likely to incur based on our plans, but are not obligated to incur. Therefore, it should be noted that the exclusion of these items from the table could be a limitation in assessing our total future cash flows under contracts. (e) As of January 2, 2021, our total liability for uncertain tax positions was $65 million, of which $19 million scheduled to be paid in the next twelve months. We are not able to reasonably estimate the timing of future cash flows related to the remaining $46 million. (f) Other long-term obligations are those associated with noncurrent liabilities recorded within the Consolidated Balance Sheet at year-end 2020 and consist principally of projected commitments under deferred compensation arrangements, multiemployer plans, and supplemental employee retirement benefits. The table also includes our current estimate of minimum contributions to defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit plans through 2026 as follows: 2021-$43; 2022-$41; 2023-$39; 2024-$41; 2025-$39; 2026-$50. In addition, $80 million of insurance loss reserves and $24 million of tax repatriation payable are expected to be paid over the next four and seven years, respectively, are included in the total above. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Promotional expenditures Our promotional activities are conducted either through the retail trade or directly with consumers and include activities such as in-store displays and events, feature price discounts, consumer coupons, contests and loyalty programs. The costs of these activities are generally recognized at the time the related revenue is recorded, which normally precedes the actual cash expenditure. The recognition of these costs therefore requires management judgment regarding the volume of promotional offers that will be redeemed by either the retail trade or consumer. These estimates are made using various techniques including historical data on performance of similar promotional programs. Differences between estimated expense and actual redemptions are normally immaterial and recognized as a change in management estimate in a subsequent period. On a full-year basis, these subsequent period adjustments represent approximately 0.5% of our company’s net sales. However, our company’s total promotional expenditures (including amounts classified as a revenue reduction) are significant, so it is likely our results would be materially different if different assumptions or conditions were to prevail. 48 Property Long-lived assets such as property, plant and equipment are tested for impairment when conditions indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Management evaluates several conditions, including, but not limited to, the following: a significant decrease in the market price of an asset or an asset group; a significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which a long-lived asset is being used, including an extended period of idleness; and a current expectation that, more likely than not, a long-lived asset or asset group will be sold or otherwise disposed of significantly before the end of its previously estimated useful life. For assets to be held and used, we project the expected future undiscounted cash flows generated by the long-lived asset or asset group over the remaining useful life of the primary asset. If the cash flow analysis yields an amount less than the carrying amount we determine the fair value of the asset or asset group by using comparable market data. There are inherent uncertainties associated with the judgments and estimates we use in these analyses. At January 2, 2021, we have property, plant and equipment of $3.7 billion, net of accumulated depreciation, on our balance sheet. Goodwill and other intangible assets We perform an impairment evaluation of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives at least annually during the fourth quarter of each year in conjunction with our annual budgeting process. Goodwill impairment testing first requires a comparison between the carrying value and fair value of a reporting unit with associated goodwill. Carrying value is based on the assets and liabilities associated with the operations of that reporting unit, which often requires allocation of shared or corporate items among reporting units. For the 2020 goodwill impairment test, the fair value of the reporting units was estimated based on market multiples of sales, if applicable, and/or earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) and earnings for companies comparable to our reporting units. In the event the fair value determined using the market multiples approach is close to the carrying value, we may also supplement our fair value determination using discounted cash flows. Management believes the assumptions used for the impairment test are consistent with those utilized by a market participant performing similar valuations for our reporting units. Similarly, impairment testing of indefinite-lived intangible assets requires a comparison of carrying value to fair value of that particular asset. Fair values of non-goodwill intangible assets are based primarily on projections of future cash flows to be generated from that asset. For instance, cash flows related to a particular trademark would be based on a projected royalty stream attributable to branded product sales discounted at rates consistent with rates used by market participants. These estimates are made using various inputs including historical data, current and anticipated market conditions, management plans, and market comparables. We also evaluate the useful life over which a non-goodwill intangible asset with a finite life is expected to contribute directly or indirectly to our cash flows. Reaching a determination on useful life requires significant judgments and assumptions regarding the future effects of obsolescence, demand, competition, other economic factors (such as the stability of the industry, known technological advances, legislative action that results in an uncertain or changing regulatory environment, and expected changes in distribution channels), the level of required maintenance expenditures, and the expected lives of other related groups of assets. At January 2, 2021, goodwill and other intangible assets amounted to $8.3 billion, consisting primarily of goodwill and brands. Within this total, approximately $2.1 billion of non-goodwill intangible assets were classified as indefinite-lived, including $1.7 billion related to trademarks, comprised principally of Pringles and cracker-related trademarks. The majority of all goodwill and other intangible assets are recorded in our North America reporting unit. The Company currently believes the fair value of goodwill and other intangible assets exceeds their carrying value and that those intangibles so classified will contribute indefinitely to cash flows. Through impairment testing performed during the fourth quarter of 2020, no heightened risk of impairment of individual intangible assets or reporting units was identified. Additionally the Company has goodwill of $373 million at January 2, 2021 related to the RX reporting unit. In performing the quantitative test of goodwill for RX, fair value was determined based on a calculation which gave consideration to an income approach utilizing the discounted cash flow method and the market approach using the guideline public company and guideline transaction methods. The significant assumptions utilized within the RX discounted cash flow method are forecasted net sales and profitability growth and the discount rate. The Company determined the fair value of RX exceeds the carrying value and no heightened risk of impairment exists for the reporting unit. 49 In the fourth quarter of 2020 management finalized a decision to reorganize part of its North America operating segment, including the RX reporting unit, effective at the beginning of fiscal 2021. The reorganization further integrates the RX business with the rest of the North American business and changes internal reporting provided to the segment manager. As a result of these changes, the Company has re-evaluated its North American reporting units and determined that effective at the beginning of fiscal 2021, the RX reporting unit will be combined with the North America reporting unit. The Company evaluated the related impacted reporting units for impairment on a before and after basis and concluded that the fair values of each reporting unit exceeded their carrying values. Retirement benefits Our company sponsors a number of U.S. and foreign defined benefit employee pension plans and also provides retiree health care and other welfare benefits in the United States and Canada. Plan funding strategies are influenced by tax regulations and asset return performance. A majority of plan assets are invested in a globally diversified portfolio of debt and equity securities with smaller holdings of other investments. We recognize the cost of benefits provided during retirement over the employees’ active working life to determine the obligations and expense related to our retiree benefit plans. Inherent in this concept is the requirement to use various actuarial assumptions to predict and measure costs and obligations many years prior to the settlement date. Major actuarial assumptions that require significant management judgment and have a material impact on the measurement of our consolidated benefits expense and accumulated obligation include the long-term rates of return on plan assets, the health care cost trend rates, the mortality table and improvement scale, and the interest rates used to discount the obligations for our major plans, which cover employees in the United States, United Kingdom and Canada. Our expense recognition policy for pension and nonpension postretirement benefits is to immediately recognize actuarial gains and losses in our operating results in the year in which they occur. Actuarial gains and losses are recognized annually as of our measurement date, which is our fiscal year-end, or when remeasurement is otherwise required under generally accepted accounting principles. Additionally, for purposes of calculating the expected return on plan assets related to pension and nonpension postretirement benefits we use the fair value of plan assets. To conduct our annual review of the long-term rate of return on plan assets, we model expected returns over a 20-year investment horizon with respect to the specific investment mix of each of our major plans. The return assumptions used reflect a combination of rigorous historical performance analysis and forward-looking views of the financial markets including consideration of current yields on long-term bonds, price-earnings ratios of the major stock market indices, and long-term inflation. Our U.S. plan model, corresponding to approximately 70% of our trust assets globally, currently incorporates a long-term inflation assumption of 2.5% and a 2020 weighted-average active management premium of 0.80% (net of fees) validated by historical analysis and future return expectations. Although we review our expected long-term rates of return annually, our benefit trust investment performance for one particular year does not, by itself, significantly influence our evaluation. Our expected rates of return have generally not been revised, provided these rates continue to fall within a “more likely than not” corridor of between the 25th and 75th percentile of expected long-term returns, as determined by our modeling process. Our assumed rate of return for U.S. plans in 2020 was 7.0%, equated to approximately the 64th percentile expectation of our model, respectively. Similar methods are used for various foreign plans with invested assets, reflecting local economic conditions. Foreign trust investments represent approximately 30% of our global benefit plan assets. Based on consolidated benefit plan assets at January 2, 2021, a 100 basis point increase or decrease in the assumed rate of return would correspondingly decrease or increase 2021 benefits expense by approximately $63 million. For the years ended January 2, 2021 and December 28, 2019, our actual return on plan assets exceeded (was less than) the recognized assumed return by $400 million and $730 million, respectively. Pension assets include a level 3 investment comprising 5% of total plan assets as of January 2, 2021. The investment, a buy-in annuity contract, is valued based on the calculated pension benefit obligation covered by the contract. To conduct our annual review of health care cost trend rates, we model our actual claims cost data over a five-year historical period, including an analysis of pre-65 versus post-65 age groups and other important demographic components in our covered retiree population. This data is adjusted to eliminate the impact of plan changes and other factors that would tend to distort the underlying cost inflation trends. This year, 2020 experience has been excluded from the averages since it has been influenced by COVID-19 claims and care deferral as a result of restrictions on elective care, therefore we are comparing to a four-year average (2016-2019). Our initial health care cost trend rate is reviewed annually and adjusted as necessary to remain consistent with recent historical experience and our expectations regarding short-term future trends. In comparison to our actual four-year 50 compound annual claims cost growth rate of approximately 5.02%, our initial trend rate for 2021 of 5.00% reflects the expected future impact of faster-growing claims experience for certain demographic groups within our total employee population. Our initial rate is trended downward by 0.25% per year, until the ultimate trend rate of 4.5% is reached. The ultimate trend rate is adjusted annually, as necessary, to approximate the current economic view on the rate of long-term inflation plus an appropriate health care cost premium. Any arising health care claims cost-related experience gain or loss is recognized in the year in which they occur. The experience gain arising from recognition of 2020 claims experience was approximately $37 million. Assumed mortality rates of plan participants are a critical estimate in measuring the expected payments a participant will receive over their lifetime and the amount of expense we recognize. In 2019, the Society of Actuaries (SOA) published updated mortality tables and an updated improvement scale. In 2020, the SOA released an updated improvement scale that incorporates an additional year of data. In determining the appropriate mortality assumptions as of 2020 fiscal year-end, we used the 2019 SOA tables with collar adjustments based on Kellogg’s current population, consistent with the prior year. In addition, based on mortality information available from the Social Security Administration and other sources, we developed assumptions for future mortality improvement in line with our expectations for future experience. The change to the mortality assumption decreased the year-end pension and postretirement benefit obligations by $1.4 million and $0.4 million, respectively. To conduct our annual review of discount rates, we selected the discount rate based on a cash-flow matching analysis using Willis Towers Watson’s proprietary RATE:Link tool and projections of the future benefit payments constituting the projected benefit obligation for the plans. RATE:Link establishes the uniform discount rate that produces the same present value of the estimated future benefit payments, as is generated by discounting each year’s benefit payments by a spot rate applicable to that year. The spot rates used in this process are derived from a yield curve created from yields on the 40th to 90th percentile of U.S. high quality bonds. A similar methodology is applied in Canada and Europe, and in the United Kingdom the underlying yield curve was derived after further adjustments to the universe of bonds to remove government backed bonds. We use a December 31 measurement date for our defined benefit plans. Accordingly, we select yield curves to measure our benefit obligations that are consistent with market indices during December of each year. Based on consolidated obligations at January 2, 2021, a 25 basis point decline in the yield curve used for benefit plan measurement purposes would decrease 2021 benefits expense by approximately $9 million and would result in an immediate loss recognition of $181 million. All obligation-related actuarial gains and losses are recognized immediately in the year in which they occur. Despite the previously-described policies for selecting major actuarial assumptions, we periodically experience material actuarial gains or losses due to differences between assumed and actual experience and due to changing economic conditions. During 2020, we recognized a net actuarial loss of approximately $151 million compared to a net actuarial loss of approximately $94 million in 2019. The total net loss recognized in 2020 was driven by a loss of approximately $551 million of plan experience and assumption changes, including decreases in the discount rate, partially offset by a $400 million gain from better than expected asset returns. During 2020, we made contributions in the amount of $8 million to Kellogg’s global tax-qualified pension programs. This amount was mostly non-discretionary. Additionally, we contributed $24 million to our retiree medical programs. Income taxes Our consolidated effective income tax rate is influenced by tax planning opportunities available to us in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. The calculation of our income tax provision and deferred income tax assets and liabilities is complex and requires the use of estimates and judgment. We recognize tax benefits associated with uncertain tax positions when, in our judgment, it is more likely than not that the positions will be sustained upon examination by a taxing authority. For tax positions that meet the more likely than not recognition threshold, we initially and subsequently measure the tax benefits as the largest amount that we judge to have a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Our liability associated with unrecognized tax benefits is adjusted periodically due to changing circumstances, such as the progress of tax audits, new or emerging legislation and tax planning. The tax position will be derecognized when it is no longer more likely than not of being sustained. Significant adjustments to our liability for unrecognized tax benefits impacting our effective tax rate are separately presented in the rate reconciliation table of Note 13 within Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 51 Management monitors the Company’s ability to utilize certain future tax deductions, operating losses and tax credit carryforwards, prior to expiration as well as the reinvestment assertion regarding our undistributed foreign earnings. Changes resulting from management’s assessment will result in impacts to deferred tax assets and the corresponding impacts on the effective income tax rate. Valuation allowances were recorded to reduce deferred tax assets to an amount that will, more likely than not, be realized in the future. FUTURE OUTLOOK The Company issued its initial financial guidance for 2021. Specifically, the Company is projecting: Organic net sales to decrease by approximately (1)%, as it compares against unusually strong, COVID-related growth in the prior year. Currency-neutral adjusted operating profit to decline approximately (2)%, as it compares against unusually strong, COVID-related growth and a 53rd week of business in the prior year. Currency-neutral adjusted earnings per share to increase by approximately 1%. Net cash provided by operating activities is expected to be approximately $1.6 billion, with capital expenditures of approximately $0.5 billion. As a result, non-GAAP cash flow is expected to be approximately $1.1 billion. Excluded from this guidance, are any significant supply chain or other prolonged market disruptions related to the pandemic or global economy. Reconciliation of non-GAAP guidance measures We are unable to reasonably estimate the potential full-year financial impact of mark-to-market adjustments because these impacts are dependent on future changes in market conditions (interest rates, return on assets, and commodity prices). Similarly, because of volatility in foreign exchange rates and shifts in country mix of our international earnings, we are unable to reasonably estimate the potential full-year financial impact of foreign currency translation. As a result, these impacts are not included in the guidance provided. Therefore, we are unable to provide a full reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures used in our guidance without unreasonable effort as certain information necessary to calculate such measure on a GAAP basis is unavailable, dependent on future events outside of our control and cannot be predicted without unreasonable efforts by the Company. See the table below that outlines the projected impact of certain other items that are excluded from non-GAAP guidance for 2021: Impact of certain items excluded from Non-GAAP guidance: Net Sales Operating Profit Earnings Per Share Business and portfolio realignment (pre-tax) $30-$40M $0.09-$0.12 Income tax impact applicable to adjustments, net** ~$0.03 Currency-neutral adjusted guidance* ~(2)% ~1% Organic guidance* ~(1)% * 2021 full year guidance for net sales, operating profit, and earnings per share are provided on a non-GAAP basis only because certain information necessary to calculate such measures on a GAAP basis is unavailable, dependent on future events outside of our control and cannot be predicted without unreasonable efforts by the Company. These items for 2021 include impacts of mark-to-market adjustments for pension plans (service cost, interest cost, expected return on plan assets, and other net periodic pension costs are not excluded), commodities and certain foreign currency contracts. The Company is providing quantification of known adjustment items where available. ** Represents the estimated income tax effect on the reconciling items, using weighted-average statutory tax rates, depending upon the applicable jurisdiction. Reconciliation of Non-GAAP amounts - Cash Flow Guidance (billions) Full Year 2021 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities ~$1.6 Additions to properties ~($0.5) Cash Flow ~$1.1 52 ITEM 7A.