 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Kellogg Company and Subsidiaries RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Business overview The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is intended to help the reader understand Kellogg Company, our operations and our present business environment. MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes thereto contained in Item 8 of this Report, as well as Part II, 'Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" of our Form 10-K for the year ended January 2, 2021, which provides additional information on comparisons of years 2020 and 2019. For more than 115 years, consumers have counted on Kellogg for great-tasting, high-quality and nutritious foods. These foods include snacks, such as crackers, savory snacks, toaster pastries, cereal bars and bites; and convenience foods, such as, ready-to-eat cereals, frozen waffles, veggie foods and noodles. Kellogg products are manufactured and marketed globally. Our MD&A references consumption and net sales in discussing our sales trends for certain categories and brands. We record net sales upon delivery of shipments to our customers. Consumption and share data noted within is based on Nielsen x-AOC or other comparable source, for the applicable period. Consumption refers to consumer purchases of our products from our customers. Unless otherwise noted, consumption and shipment trends are materially consistent. COVID-19 response Since the World Health Organization categorized the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) as a pandemic in March 2020, our key objectives continue to be 1) protecting the health and safety of our employees, 2) safely producing and delivering our foods to customers and consumers, and 3) supporting the communities in which we operate. Our efforts have been led by the Company’s Executive Committee, a committee composed of senior leaders, and our global Crisis Management Process. As part of that process, we have worked closely with medical, regulatory and other experts as we deliver on our objectives. Protect employee health and safety The health and safety of our employees is our top priority. From the outset of the pandemic, the Company has designed and implemented a number of actions across the business including restricting travel and visitors to its facilities, limiting external group meetings and establishing safety procedures for any potentially exposed employees. At this time, most of our office employees continue to work remotely to minimize the exposure of our employees to COVID-19. For those who are not able to work remotely, the Company has implemented enhanced protocols at all of our facilities to protect our employees, including temperature checks, social distancing, response plans, face coverings, contact tracing, enhanced sanitation procedures, and additional personal protection equipment Maintain our ability to produce and deliver essential food supply In addition to our efforts to keep our people safe, the Company has taken several actions to ensure that we maintain our ability to operate effectively during this pandemic, providing our foods to our customers and consumers. In certain parts of the world, the reacceleration of COVID cases has brought new governmental restrictions, in some instances causing temporary reductions in production. Additionally, as a result of global supply imbalances, we have managed through bottlenecks and shortages of materials, labor, and freight that have required us to pursue alternative sources, incremental capacity, and temporary labor. We continue to take the appropriate actions to ensure the continuity of our business. We have partnered with our strategic technology providers in order to maintain support for our critical business and finance systems as well as additional network bandwidth and support for a work-from-home environment. We have worked to mitigate system-related risks in this environment through heightened monitoring of cybersecurity and network capacity as well as reevaluation of contingency plans. 27 Support communities Kellogg is a company with a heart and soul, and we are working together across our company to help our food bank partners and neighbors in need. Kellogg and our charitable funds have donated cash and food to global COVID-19 hunger relief efforts. As always, through our global Kellogg’s® Better Days purpose platform, we help deliver critical nourishment to people when they need it most. Local governments have identified food security as a top priority in their fight against COVID-19. Kellogg is providing support to our food bank partners on the front-lines, helping those who may not know where their next meal is coming from. Monitoring future impacts The severity, magnitude and duration of the current COVID-19 pandemic is uncertain and rapidly changing. The Company continues to actively monitor the pandemic including, infection and hospitalization rates, vaccination efforts, and related governmental actions. We will adjust our mitigation strategies as necessary to address any changing health, operational or financial risks that may arise. Since the onset of the pandemic, the Company has experienced a significant increase in demand for our retail products as consumers stocked up on food for at-home consumption in those markets. While this demand has moderated for certain products, we will continue to manage our production capacity during this period of volatility. We continue to monitor the business for adverse impacts of the pandemic, including volatility in the foreign exchange markets, reduced demand in our away from home businesses, supply-chain disruptions in certain markets, increased costs of employee safety and maintaining food supply, and potential disruptions for certain emerging market countries. In the event the Company experiences adverse impacts from the above or other factors, the Company would also evaluate the need to perform interim impairment tests for the Company’s goodwill, indefinite lived intangible assets, investments in unconsolidated affiliates and property, plant and equipment. There can be no assurance that volatility and/or disruption in the global capital and credit markets will not impair our ability to access these markets on terms acceptable to us, or at all. See further discussion within Future Outlook. Segments We manage our operations through four operating segments that are based primarily on geographic location – North America which includes the U.S. businesses and Canada; Europe which consists principally of European countries; Latin America which consists of Central and South America and includes Mexico; and AMEA (Asia Middle East Africa) which consists of Africa, Middle East, Australia and other Asian and Pacific markets. These operating segments also represent our reportable segments On July 28, 2019, we completed the sale of selected cookies, fruit and fruit-flavored snacks, pie crusts, and ice cream cones businesses to Ferrero International S.A. (“Ferrero”) for $1.3 billion in cash, on a cash-free, debt-free basis and subject to a working capital adjustment mechanism. During 2020 the working capital adjustment was finalized, resulting in a reduction of the sale proceeds and recognition of a pre-tax expense in Other income and (expense) of $4 million. The operating results for these businesses were included in our North America and Latin America reportable segments prior to the sale. Non-GAAP Financial Measures This filing includes non-GAAP financial measures that we provide to management and investors that exclude certain items that we do not consider part of on-going operations. Items excluded from our non-GAAP financial measures are discussed in the "Significant items impacting comparability" section of this filing. Our management team consistently utilizes a combination of GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate business results, to make decisions regarding the future direction of our business, and for resource allocation decisions, including incentive compensation. As a result, we believe the presentation of both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures provides investors with increased transparency into financial measures used by our management team and improves investors’ understanding of our underlying operating performance and in their analysis of ongoing operating trends. All historic non-GAAP financial measures have been reconciled with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. 28 Non-GAAP Financial Measures Non-GAAP financial measures used for evaluation of performance include currency-neutral and organic net sales, adjusted and currency-neutral adjusted operating profit, adjusted and currency-neutral adjusted diluted earnings per share (EPS), adjusted and currency-neutral adjusted gross profit, adjusted and currency neutral adjusted gross margin, adjusted other income (expense), and cash flow. We determine currency-neutral results by dividing or multiplying, as appropriate, the current-period local currency operating results by the currency exchange rates used to translate our financial statements in the comparable prior-year period to determine what the current period U.S. dollar operating results would have been if the currency exchange rate had not changed from the comparable prior-year period. These non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies. • Currency-neutral net sales and organic net sales : We adjust the GAAP financial measure to exclude the impact of foreign currency, resulting in currency-neutral net sales. In addition, we exclude the impact of acquisitions, divestitures, foreign currency, and differences in shipping days including the 53rd week, resulting in organic net sales. We excluded the items which we believe may obscure trends in our underlying net sales performance. By providing these non-GAAP net sales measures, management intends to provide investors with a meaningful, consistent comparison of net sales performance for the Company and each of our reportable segments for the periods presented. Management uses these non-GAAP measures to evaluate the effectiveness of initiatives behind net sales growth, pricing realization, and the impact of mix on our business results. These non-GAAP measures are also used to make decisions regarding the future direction of our business, and for resource allocation decisions. • Adjusted: gross profit, gross margin, operating profit and diluted EPS: We adjust the GAAP financial measures to exclude the effect of restructuring programs, mark-to-market adjustments for pension plans (service cost, interest cost, expected return on plan assets, and other net periodic pension costs are not excluded), commodity contracts, certain equity investments and certain foreign currency contracts, multi-employer pension plan withdrawal liabilities, gain/loss on the divestiture, and other costs impacting comparability resulting in adjusted. We excluded the items which we believe may obscure trends in our underlying profitability. By providing these non-GAAP profitability measures, management intends to provide investors with a meaningful, consistent comparison of the Company's profitability measures for the periods presented. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate the effectiveness of initiatives intended to improve profitability, as well as to evaluate the impacts of inflationary pressures and decisions to invest in new initiatives within each of our segments. • Currency-neutral adjusted: gross profit, gross margin, operating profit, and diluted EPS: We adjust the GAAP financial measures to exclude the effect of restructuring programs, mark-to-market adjustments for pension plans (service cost, interest cost, expected return on plan assets, and other net periodic pension costs are not excluded), commodity contracts, certain equity investments and certain foreign currency contracts, multi-employer pension plan withdrawal liabilities, gain/loss on divestiture, other costs impacting comparability, and foreign currency, resulting in currency-neutral adjusted. We excluded the items which we believe may obscure trends in our underlying profitability. By providing these non-GAAP profitability measures, management intends to provide investors with a meaningful, consistent comparison of the Company's profitability measures for the periods presented. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate the effectiveness of initiatives intended to improve profitability, as well as to evaluate the impacts of inflationary pressures and decisions to invest in new initiatives within each of our segments. • Adjusted effective income tax rate: We adjust the GAAP financial measures to exclude the effect of restructuring programs, mark-to-market adjustments for pension plans (service cost, interest cost, expected return on plan assets, and other net periodic pension costs are not excluded), commodity contracts, certain equity investments and certain foreign currency contracts, multi-employer pension plan withdrawal liabilities, the gain/loss on divestiture, and other costs impacting comparability. We excluded the items which we believe may obscure trends in our pre-tax income and the related tax effect of those items on our adjusted effective income tax rate, and other impacts to tax expense, including tax reform in the UK and U.S. and certain foreign valuation allowances. By providing this non-GAAP measure, management intends to provide investors with a meaningful, consistent comparison of the Company's effective tax rate, excluding the pre-tax income and tax effect of the items noted above, for the periods presented. Management uses this non-GAAP measure to monitor the effectiveness of initiatives in place to optimize our global tax rate. 29 • Net debt : Defined as the sum of long-term debt, current maturities of long-term debt and notes payable, less cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities. With respect to net debt, cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities are subtracted from the GAAP measure, total debt liabilities, because they could be used to reduce the Company’s debt obligations. Company management and investors use this non-GAAP measure to evaluate changes to the Company's capital structure and credit quality assessment. • Cash flow: Defined as net cash provided by operating activities reduced by expenditures for property additions. Cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. We use this non-GAAP financial measure of cash flow to focus management and investors on the amount of cash available for debt repayment, dividend distributions, acquisition opportunities, and share repurchases once all of the Company’s business needs and obligations are met. Additionally, certain performance-based compensation includes a component of this non-GAAP measure. These measures have not been calculated in accordance with GAAP and should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP reporting measures. Significant items impacting comparability Mark-to-market We recognize mark-to-market adjustments for pension and postretirement benefit plans, commodity contracts, and certain foreign currency contracts as incurred. Actuarial gains/losses for pension plans were recognized in the year they occur. Mark-to-market gains/losses for certain equity investments are recorded based on observable price changes. Changes between contract and market prices for commodities contracts and certain foreign currency contracts result in gains/losses that were recognized in the quarter they occur. We recorded a total pre-tax mark-to-market gain of $166 million for 2021, a total pre-tax market-to-market charge of $162 million for 2020 and a total pre-tax mark-to-market charge of $104 million for 2019. Included within the aforementioned totals was a pre-tax mark-to-market gain for pension plans of $164 million for 2021, pre-tax mark-to-market charge for pension plans of $154 million for 2020, and a pre-tax mark-to-market charge for pension plans of $98 million for 2019. Project K In 2019, the Company completed implementation of all Project K initiatives. We recorded pre-tax charges related to this program of $54 million in 2019. See the Restructuring and cost reduction activities section for more information. Brexit readiness impacts During 2019, with the uncertainty associated with the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union (EU), commonly referred to as Brexit, we incurred certain costs to proactively prepare for the potential adverse impacts of Brexit, such as delays at ports of entry and departure. As a result, we incurred pre-tax charges of $9 million in 2019. Business and portfolio realignment One-time costs related to reorganizations in support of our Deploy for Growth priorities and a reshaped portfolio; investments in enhancing capabilities prioritized by our Deploy for Growth strategy; and completed and prospective divestitures and acquisitions, including the divestiture of our cookies, fruit snacks, pie crusts, and ice cream cone business. As a result, we incurred pre-tax charges, primarily related to reorganizations of $36 million in 2021, $38 million in 2020 and $156 million in 2019. Multi-employer pension plan exit liability During the third quarter of 2019, the Company incurred a pre-tax charge of $132 million due to withdrawing from two multi-employer pension plans. During the second quarter of 2020, the Company recorded a pre-tax gain of approximately $5 million related to the settlement of one multi-employer pension plan withdrawal liability from the prior year. 30 Divestitures On July 28, 2019, the Company completed its sale of selected cookies, fruit and fruit flavored snacks, pie crusts, and ice cream cones businesses to Ferrero for approximately $1.3 billion in cash, subject to a working capital adjustment mechanism. Both the total assets and net assets of the businesses were approximately $1.3 billion, resulting in a net pre-tax gain of $38 million during the third quarter, recorded in other income and (expense). Additionally, the company recognized curtailment gains related to the divestiture totaling $17 million in our U.S. pension and nonpension postretirement plans. During 2020 the working capital adjustment was finalized, resulting in a reduction of the sale proceeds and recognition of a pre-tax expense in Other income and (expense) of $4 million. The operating results for the divested businesses were primarily included in the North America reporting segment prior to the sale. Reported net sales for the divested businesses totaled $562 million for the first seven months of the year ended December 28, 2019. Additionally, during the fourth quarter of 2020, the Company divested its majority ownership of a small business in our Europe reportable segment, resulting in a pre-tax loss of $4 million. Net sales in 2020, totaled approximately $11 million for the business divested. Impact of shipping day differences including 53rd week During the fourth quarter of 2020, the Company had a difference in shipping days resulting from an additional week of business during the fiscal year. This impact increased reported net sales by $174 million for the year ended January 2, 2021. Foreign valuation allowance During the third quarter of 2021, the Company determined that certain foreign deferred tax assets were no longer more likely than not to be realized in the future and a full valuation allowance of $20 million was recorded. UK tax rate change During the second quarter of 2021, the Company recorded tax expense of $23 million as a result of tax legislation enacted in the UK in June of 2021, which increased the statutory UK tax rate from 19 percent to 25 percent and required us to re-value our net UK deferred tax liability balance to reflect this higher rate. U.S. Tax Reform During the third quarter of 2020, the Company reversed a liability for uncertain tax positions of $32 million, related to th e finalization of a tax examination. The liability was related to the Company's estimate of the transition tax liability in conjunction with the finalization of accounting under Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, Income Tax Accounting Implications of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Foreign currency translation We evaluate the operating results of our business on a currency-neutral basis. We determine currency-neutral operating results by dividing or multiplying, as appropriate, the current period local currency operating results by the currency exchange rates used to translate our financial statements in the comparable prior year period to determine what the current period U.S. dollar operating results would have been if the currency exchange rate had not changed from the comparable prior-year period. Organic net sales exclude the impact of acquisitions, including the foreign currency impact calculated by applying the prior year foreign currency rates to current period results. 31 Financial results For the full year ended January 1, 2022, our reported net sales increased 3.0% versus the prior year on positive price/mix across all regions and accelerated growth in snacks and emerging markets. Organic net sales increased 3.5% from the prior year after excluding the impact of the 53rd week and foreign currency. Reported operating profit decreased 0.5% versus the prior year due primarily to economy-wide supply disruptions, including the fourth-quarter labor strike in our U.S. cereal plants and third-quarter fire at one of the facilities, as well as accelerated cost inflation, partially offset by higher net sales. Currency-neutral adjusted operating profit decreased 1.9%, after excluding the impact of mark-to-market and foreign currency. Reported diluted EPS of $4.33 for the year was up 19% compared to the prior year EPS of $3.63 due primarily to the year-over-year mark-to-market benefit. Currency-neutral adjusted diluted EPS of $4.04 for the year increased 1.3% compared to prior year EPS of $3.99, after excluding the impact of significant items impacting comparability. Reconciliation of certain non-GAAP Financial Measures Note: Tables may not foot due to rounding. For more information on reconciling items in the table above, please refer to the Significant items impacting comparability section. * Represents the estimated income tax effect on the reconciling items, using weighted-average statutory tax rates, depending upon the applicable jurisdiction. 32 Net sales and operating profit 2021 compared to 2020 The following tables provide an analysis of net sales and operating profit performance for 2021 versus 2020: Note: Tables may not foot due to rounding. For more information on reconciling items in the table above, please refer to the Significant items impacting comparability section. 33 Note: Tables may not foot due to rounding. For more information on reconciling items in the table above, please refer to the Significant items impacting comparability section. North America Reported net sales decreased 2.3% versus the prior year as positive price/mix was more than offset by the negative impact on volume of supply disruptions, including the fourth-quarter labor strike in our cereal plants and third-quarter fire at one of the facilities, as well as the impact of lapping the 53rd week. Organic net sales decreased 1.1% after excluding the impact of the 53rd week and foreign currency. North America snacks net sales increased 5.5% led by consumption growth in each of our three major categories, crackers, salty snacks, and portable wholesome snacks. 34 North America cereal net sales decreased 14% as it lapped strong prior year pandemic-related growth and experienced challenging supply conditions including a labor strike in our U.S. cereal plants and a fire at one of those facilities. North America frozen foods net sales decreased 3.0% during the year, as it lapped strong prior year pandemic-related growth and experienced current period supply constraints. North America operating profit decreased 9.8% compared to the prior year due to supply disruptions, including the fourth-quarter labor strike in our cereal plants and third-quarter fire at one of the facilities, as well as accelerated cost inflation. Currency-neutral adjusted operating profit decreased 8.8%, after excluding the impact of business and portfolio realignment. Europe Reported net sales increased 7.4% driven by both volume and price/mix, as well as favorable foreign currency translation. Organic net sales increased 4.2% after excluding the impact of the 53rd week and foreign currency. Cereal net sales declined due to lapping a pandemic-related surge in consumption growth during the prior year, partially offset by favorable foreign currency translation and notably strong share gains in the UK. Snacks net sales growth was led by sustained momentum in Pringles, driven by innovation, effective advertising, and successful consumer promotions. Reported operating profit increased 16% due primarily to higher net sales and favorable foreign currency translation partially offset by lapping unusually high operating leverage during the onset of the pandemic. Currency-neutral adjusted operating profit increased 6.8% after excluding the impact of foreign currency, and business and portfolio realignment. Latin America Reported net sales increased 9.0% driven by both volume and price/mix, and with broad-based growth across the region, led by snacks, and favorable foreign currency translation. Organic net sales increased 7.4%, after excluding the impact of foreign currency. Snacks net sales growth was led by sustained consumption growth and share gains in key markets for salty snacks and share gains in portable wholesome snacks. Cereal net sales increased due to share gains in key markets, including Mexico, Puerto Rico and Brazil, despite the lapping of a pandemic-related surge in consumption in the prior year. Reported operating profit increased 13% due to higher net sales and favorable foreign currency translation partially offset by input cost inflation. Currency-neutral adjusted operating profit increased 7.5% after excluding the impact of mark-to-market and foreign currency. AMEA Reported net sales increased 16% driven by both volume and price/mix, and with broad-based growth across the region and categories. Organic net sales also increased 18%. Noodles and other net sales increased lead by strong growth from Multipro as well as our Kellogg's branded noodles business. Snacks net sales increased due primarily to strong growth in Pringles across the region. Cereal net sales growth was driven by broad-based growth across Asia and Australia. Reported operating profit increased 22% due primarily to operating leverage from higher net sales and the lapping of prior year business and portfolio realignment charges. Currency-neutral adjusted operating profit increased 12%, after excluding the impact of business and portfolio realignment, and foreign currency. Corporate Reported operating profit increased $30 million versus the comparable prior year period due primarily to favorable mark-to-market impact and lower incentive compensation expense. Currency-neutral adjusted operating profit increased $41 million from the prior year after excluding the impact of mark-to-market. 35 2020 compared to 2019 The following tables provide an analysis of net sales and operating profit performance for 2020 versus 2019: Note: Tables may not foot due to rounding. For more information on reconciling items in the table above, please refer to the Significant items impacting comparability section. 36 Note: Tables may not foot due to rounding. For more information on reconciling items in the table above, please refer to the Significant items impacting comparability section. North America Reported net sales decreased 0.4% versus the prior year, due primarily to the absence of results from the businesses divested in July 2019, partially offset by strong organic growth and the benefit from the 53rd week. Net sales growth was driven by the acceleration of demand for snacks, cereal, and frozen food as consumers increased purchases of food for at-home consumption due to the pandemic, moderating beginning in the third quarter. This acceleration of demand was partly offset by a related decline in net sales in away-from-home channels and, to a lesser extent, the timing of shipments in certain categories during the 4th quarter. Organic net sales increased 5.1% after excluding the impact of the divestiture, foreign currency, and the 53rd week. 37 North America snacks net sales decreased 7.2% due to the absence of the divested businesses, whose results were seasonally weighted to the first half of the year, partially offset by the benefit of the 53rd week. Organic net sales increased 3.3% due to high demand for packaged foods for at-home consumption as a result of the pandemic partly offset by a related decline in net sales in away-from-home channels. North America cereal and frozen foods net sales grew 8.5% and 9.6%, respectively, due to elevated demand for packaged foods for at-home consumption as a result of the pandemic. North America reported operating profit increased 21% due primarily to higher net sales and the lapping of prior year charges for multi-employer pension plan withdrawal, business and portfolio realignment and Project K costs, partially offset by the absence of results from the divested businesses, and incremental COVID-19-related costs. Currency-neutral adjusted operating profit increased 3.1%, after excluding the impact of multi-employer pension plan withdrawal, business and portfolio realignment, Project K and foreign currency. Europe Reported net sales increased 6.7% due to elevated demand for at-home consumption of cereal and the benefit of the 53rd week, partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency. Organic net sales increased 5.1%. Cereal net sales growth was driven largely by accelerated consumption in our developed markets as a result of the pandemic. Snacks net sales declined slightly as a result of reduced demand for on-the-go foods and pack formats during the pandemic and a reduction in advertising and promotional activity in the first half of the year related to Pringles due to the cancellation of a major sporting event. Reported operating profit increased 35% due primarily to higher net sales and lower business and portfolio realignment costs partially offset by incremental COVID-19-related costs. Currency-neutral adjusted operating profit increased 10% after excluding the impact of business and portfolio realignment, Project K, and foreign currency. Latin America Reported net sales decreased 2.8% due primarily to the impact of unfavorable foreign currency. Organic net sales increased 12%, after excluding the impact of foreign currency. Organic net sales growth was driven by higher cereal sales, which accelerated during the pandemic as consumers increased purchases of food for at-home consumption in modern trade channels as a result of the pandemic. Cereal net sales growth was led by Mexico and Caricam. Snacks net sales declined on a reported basis due primarily to unfavorable foreign currency. However, Pringles posted strong consumption and share performance, led by Mexico and Brazil. Reported operating profit increased 14% due to higher net sales and lapping of prior year Project K costs, partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency. Currency-neutral adjusted operating profit increased 11% after excluding the impact of foreign currency, Project K, and business and portfolio realignment. AMEA Reported net sales improved 5.0% due to growth in cereal, noodles, and Pringles, partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency. Organic net sales increased 7.7% after excluding the impact of foreign currency and the 53rd week. Cereal net sales growth for the region was driven by elevated demand for at-home consumption of our products in developed markets as well as emerging markets. Noodles net sales growth during the year was due primarily to the expansion of our business in Africa and the Middle East. Reported operating profit increased 3.5% due primarily to the impact of higher net sales, which more than offset the prior year reversal of indirect excise tax liabilities resulting from participation in a tax amnesty program, and 38 unfavorable foreign currency impacts. Currency-neutral adjusted operating profit increased 6.1%, after excluding the impact of business and portfolio realignment, Project K, and foreign currency. Corporate Reported operating profit increased $4 million versus the prior year due primarily to lower business and portfolio realignment costs partially offset by higher performance-based compensation costs. Currency-neutral adjusted operating profit decreased $35 million from the prior year after excluding the impact of business and portfolio realignment and foreign currency. Margin performance 2021 versus 2020 gross margin performance was as follows: Note: Tables may not foot due to rounding. For information on the reconciling items in the table above, please refer to the Significant items impacting comparability section. (a) Reported gross margin as a percentage of net sales. Gross margin is equal to net sales less cost of goods sold. Reported gross margin decreased 210 basis points versus the prior year as the impact of productivity improvements and price realization was more than offset by cost inflation, the impact of the labor strike, a mix shift towards emerging markets, and lapping substantial operating leverage in the prior year when our plants were running limited SKUs at maximum capacity due to the acceleration of demand as a result of the pandemic. Currency-neutral adjusted gross margin decreased 210 basis points compared to 2020. 39 Our 2021 and 2020 currency-neutral adjusted gross profit is reconciled to the most comparable U.S. GAAP measures as follows: Note: Tables may not foot due to rounding. For more information on the reconciling items in the table above, please refer to the Significant items impacting comparability section. (a) Gross profit is equal to net sales less cost of goods sold. 2020 versus 2019 gross margin performance was as follows: Note: Tables may not foot due to rounding. For more information on reconciling items in the table above, please refer to the Significant items impacting comparability section. (a) Reported gross margin as a percentage of net sales. Gross margin is equal to net sales less cost of goods sold. Reported gross margin for the year ended January 2, 2021 increased 200 basis points due primarily to operating leverage as a result of higher net sales, lower charges for multi-employer pension plan withdrawal, and Project K, partially offset by incremental COVID-19-related costs, and unfavorable foreign currency. Currency-neutral adjusted gross margin increased 60 basis points compared to the prior year after eliminating the impact of multi-employer pension plan withdrawal, Project K, and foreign currency. Our 2020 and 2019 currency-neutral adjusted gross profit is reconciled to the most comparable U.S. GAAP measures as follows: Note: Tables may not foot due to rounding. For more information on reconciling items in the table above, please refer to the Significant items impacting comparability section. (a) Gross profit is equal to net sales less cost of goods sold. 40 Restructuring programs The Company views its restructuring programs as part of its operating principles to provide greater visibility in achieving its long-term profit growth targets. Initiatives undertaken are currently expected to recover cash implementation costs within a 3 to 5-year period subsequent to completion. Completion (or as each major stage is completed in the case of multi-year programs), is when the project begins to deliver cash savings and/or reduced depreciation. During 2021, the Company announced a reconfiguration of the North America reportable segment supply chain network, designed to drive increased productivity. The project is expected to be substantially completed by early 2024, with related productivity improvements commencing in 2023. The overall project is expected to result in cumulative pretax charges of approximately $45 million, which include employee-related costs of $4 million, other cash costs of $21 million and non-cash costs, primarily consisting of accelerated depreciation and asset write-off's, of $20 million. Charges incurred related to this restructuring program were approximately $5 million during 2021. These charges primarily related to severance costs, and were recorded in COGS. During 2019, the Company announced a reorganization plan for its European reportable segment designed to simplify the organization, increase organizational efficiency, and enhance key processes. The project was substantially completed as of the end of fiscal year 2020. Total charges and cash costs were in line with expectations. The Company recorded total net charges of $( 1 ) million in 2020, with $7 million recorded in SGA expense and ($8) million recorded in OIE. The Company recorded total net charges of $38 million in 2019, with $43 million recorded in SGA expense and $(5) million recorded in OIE. The project resulted in cumulative pretax net charges of approximately $ 37 million, including certain non-cash credits. Total cash costs were approximately $ 50 million. The total charges include severance and other termination benefits and charges related to relocation, pension curtailment gains, third party legal and consulting fees, and contract termination costs. Also during 2019, the Company announced a reorganization plan which primarily impacted the North America reportable segment, designed to simplify the organization that supports the remaining North America reportable segment after the divestiture and related transition. The project was substantially completed as of the end of fiscal year 2020. Total charges and cash costs were in line with expectations. The Company recorded total charges of $ 2 million and $21 million related to this initiative during 2020 and 2019, respectively. These charges were recorded in SGA expense. The project has resulted in cumulative pretax charges of approximately $ 23 million. Total charges include severance and other termination benefits and charges related to third party consulting fees. In addition to the projects discussed above, during 2021 and 2020 the Company incurred restructuring costs in each of its reportable segments related to various reorganization and simplification initiatives and supply chain optimization projects. The Company recorded total charges of $22 million related to these initiatives during 2021, including $16 million in COGS and $6 million in SGA expense. The Company recorded total charges of $28 million related to these initiatives during 2020, including $6 million in COGS and $22 million in SGA expense. These costs primarily relate to severance and other termination benefits. Project K As of the end of 2019, the Company completed implementation of all Project K initiatives. Total project charges, after-tax cash costs and annual savings delivered by Project K were in line with expectations. Cumulatively, Project K resulted in total pre-tax charges of approximately $1.6 billion, with after-tax cash costs, including incremental capital investments of approximately $1.2 billion. Annual cost savings generated from Project K are approximately $700 million. These savings were realized primarily in selling, general and administrative expense with additional benefit realized in gross profit as cost of goods sold savings are partially offset by negative volume and price impacts resulting from go-to-market business model changes. The overall savings profile of the project reflects our go-to-market initiatives that will impact both selling, general and administrative expense and gross profit. Cost savings have been utilized to offset inflation and fund investments in areas such as in-store execution, sales capabilities, including adding sales representatives, and in the design and quality of our products. We have also invested in production capacity in developing and emerging markets, and in global category teams. Refer to Note 5 within Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information related to Project K and other restructuring activities. 41 Foreign currency translation The reporting currency for our financial statements is the U.S. dollar. Certain of our assets, liabilities, expenses and revenues are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, primarily in the euro, British pound, Mexican peso, Australian dollar, Canadian dollar, Brazilian Real, Nigerian Naira, and Russian ruble. To prepare our consolidated financial statements, we must translate those assets, liabilities, expenses and revenues into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rates. As a result, increases and decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against these other currencies will affect the amount of these items in our consolidated financial statements, even if their value has not changed in their original currency. This could have significant impact on our results if such increase or decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar is substantial. Interest expense Interest expense was $223 million and $281 million for the years ended January 1, 2022 and January 2, 2021, respectively. The decrease from the prior year is due primarily to debt redemption costs totaling $20 million in the prior year as well as lower average outstanding debt compared to the prior year. Interest expense capitalized as part of the construction cost of fixed assets was immaterial for both periods. Interest income (recorded in other income (expense), net) was $12 million and $21 million for the years ended January 1, 2022 and January 2, 2021, respectively. Income taxes Our reported effective tax rate for 2021 and 2020 was 24.1% and 20.2%, respectively. The 2021 effective tax rate was unfavorably impacted by tax legislation in the UK and the establishment of a full valuation allowance related to certain foreign deferred tax assets. During the second quarter of 2021, the Company recorded tax expense of $23 million as a result of tax legislation enacted in the UK in June 2021, which increased the statutory UK tax rate from 19 percent to 25 percent for tax periods after April 1, 2023. The Company revalued its net deferred tax balances related to the UK business to reflect the increased tax rate. Additionally, d uring the third quarter, the Company determined that certain foreign deferred tax assets were no longer more likely than not to be realized in the future and a full valuation allowance totaling $20 million was recorded on a discrete period basis. The 2020 effective income tax rate was favorably impacted by the reversal of a liability for uncertain tax positions of $32 million, resulting from the finalization of a tax examination during the third quarter. The reserves were related to the Company's estimate of the transition tax liability in conjunction with the finalization of accounting under Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, Income Tax Accounting Implications of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Adjusted effective tax rates for 2021 and 2020 and were 21.9% and 22.2%, respectively. 42 The following table provides a reconciliation of reported to adjusted income taxes and effective income tax rate for 2021 and 2020. Note: Tables may not foot due to rounding. For more information on reconciling items in the table above, please refer to the Significant items impacting comparability section. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could impact the expected effective income tax rate as it is dependent upon U.S. dollar earnings of foreign subsidiaries doing business in various countries with differing statutory rates. Additionally, the rate could be impacted by tax legislation and if pending uncertain tax matters, including tax positions that could be affected by planning initiatives, are resolved more or less favorably than we currently expect. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES At this time, the COVID-19 pandemic has not materially impacted our liquidity and we anticipate current cash and marketable security balances, operating cash flows, together with our credit facilities and other financing sources including commercial paper, credit and bond markets, will be adequate to meet our operating, investing and financing needs. We expect cash provided by operating activities of $1.7-$1.8 billion and capital expenditures of approximately $600 million in 2022. We currently have $2.5 billion of unused revolving credit agreements, including $1.5 billion effective through 2026 and $1.0 billion effective through December 2022, as well as continued access to the commercial paper markets. We are currently in compliance with all debt covenants and do not have material uncertainty about our ability to maintain compliance in future periods. We continue to utilize available capacity within the Monetization Programs to maintain financial flexibility without negatively impacting working capital. As the impact of COVID-19 on the economy and our operations evolves, we will continue to assess our liquidity needs. Our principal source of liquidity is operating cash flows supplemented by borrowings for major acquisitions and other significant transactions. Our cash-generating capability is one of our fundamental strengths and provides us with substantial financial flexibility in meeting operating and investing needs. We have historically reported negative working capital primarily as the result of our focus to improve core working capital by reducing our levels of trade receivables and inventory while extending the timing of payment of our trade payables. The impacts of the extended customer terms programs and of the monetization programs are included in our calculation of core working capital and are largely offsetting. These programs are all part of our ongoing working capital management. We periodically monitor our supplier payment terms to assess whether our terms are competitive and in line with local market terms. To the extent that such assessment indicates that our supplier payment terms are not aligned with local market terms, we may seek to adjust our terms, including extending or shortening our payment due dates as appropriate. Supplier payment term modifications did not have a material impact on our cash flows during 2021, and are not expected to have a material impact in 2022. 43 We have a substantial amount of indebtedness which results in current maturities of long-term debt and notes payable which can have a significant impact on working capital as a result of the timing of these required payments. These factors, coupled with the use of our ongoing cash flows from operations to service our debt obligations, pay dividends, fund acquisition opportunities, and repurchase our common stock, reduce our working capital amounts. We had negative working capital of $1.9 billion and $1.8 billion as of January 1, 2022 and January 2, 2021, respectively. We believe that our operating cash flows, together with our credit facilities and other available debt financing, including commercial paper, will be adequate to meet our operating, investing and financing needs in the foreseeable future. However, there can be no assurance that volatility and/or disruption in the global capital and credit markets will not impair our ability to access these markets on terms acceptable to us, or at all. The following table sets forth a summary of our cash flows: Operating activities The principal source of our operating cash flows is net earnings, primarily cash receipts from the sale of our products, net of costs to manufacture and market our products. Net cash provided by our operating activities for 2021 totaled $1,701 million compared to $1,986 million in the prior year. The decrease is due primarily to higher year-over-year income tax payments and changes in incentive compensation and other accruals from the prior year. Our cash conversion cycle (defined as days of inventory and trade receivables outstanding less days of trade payables outstanding, based on a trailing 12 month average), is approximately negative 9 days and negative 11 days for 2021 and 2020, respectively. Core working capital in 2021 averaged 1.0% of net sales compared to 1.2% in 2020. Our total pension and postretirement benefit plan funding amounted to $20 million and $32 million for the years ended January 1, 2022 and January 2, 2021, respectively. The Pension Protection Act (PPA), and subsequent regulations, determines defined benefit plan minimum funding requirements in the United States. We believe that we will not be required to make any contributions under PPA requirements until 2022 or beyond. Our projections concerning timing of PPA funding requirements are subject to change primarily based on general market conditions affecting trust asset performance, future discount rates based on average yields of high quality corporate bonds and our decisions regarding certain elective provisions of the PPA. We currently project that we will make total U.S. and foreign benefit plan contributions in 2022 of approximately $20 million. Actual 2022 contributions could be different from our current projections, as influenced by our decision to undertake discretionary funding of our benefit trusts versus other competing investment priorities, future changes in government requirements, trust asset performance, renewals of union contracts, or higher-than-expected health care claims cost experience. We measure cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities reduced by expenditures for property additions. We use this non-GAAP financial measure of cash flow to focus management and investors on the amount of cash available over time for debt repayment, dividend distributions, acquisition opportunities, and share repurchases. Our cash flow metric is reconciled to the most comparable GAAP measure, as follows: 44 Investing activities Our net cash used in investing activities for 2021 totaled $528 million compared to $585 million in 2020. Capital spending in 2021 included investments in our supply chain infrastructure, including manufacturing capacity expansions in multiple markets and categories and initiatives targeting waste reductions and productivity improvements. Cash paid for additions to properties as a percentage of net sales was 3.9% and 3.7% in 2021 and 2020, respectively. Financing activities Our net cash used in financing activities totaled $1,306 million compared to $1,388 million during the prior year. The year-over-year variance was driven by the repayment of €500 million, seven-year 1.75% Euro Notes upon maturity in May 2021 and the repurchase of $240 million of our common stock during the current year, partially offset by the May 2021 issuance of €300 million eight-year 0.50% Euro Notes due 2029. Total debt was $7.1 billion and $7.5 billion at year-end 2021 and 2020, respectively. The following table reflects net debt amounts: In May 2021, we issued € 300 million of eight-year 0.50 % Euro Notes due 2029, resulting in net proceeds of € 298 million after discount and underwriting commissions. The 2029 Euro Notes were issued as a sustainability bond, and thus an amount equal to the net proceeds will be used to finance or refinance, in whole or in part, one or more eligible environmental or social projects described in the Company's Sustainability Bond Framework. The Notes contain customary covenants that limit the ability of the Company and its restricted subsidiaries (as defined) to incur certain liens or enter into certain sale and lease-back transactions, as well as a change of control provision. Additionally, we repaid the € 500 million, seven-year 1.75 % Euro Notes due 2021, upon maturity. In May of 2020, we issued $500 million of ten-year 2.10% Notes due 2030, resulting in net proceeds after debt discount of $496 million. The proceeds from these notes were used for general corporate purposes, including the payment of offering related fees and expenses, repayment of a portion of the $600 million 4.00% Notes due 2020 upon maturity, and repayment of a portion of commercial paper borrowings. The Notes contain customary covenants that limit the ability of the Company and its restricted subsidiaries (as defined) to incur certain liens or enter into certain sale and lease-back transactions, as well as a change of control provision. In December of 2020, we redeemed $198 million of our 3.250% Senior Notes due 2021 and $358 million of our 3.125% Senior Notes due 2022. Additionally, the remaining balance of the $600 million 4.00% Notes due 2020 was redeemed upon maturity. We paid quarterly dividends to shareholders totaling $2.31 per share in 2021 versus $2.28 per share in 2020. On February 18, 2022, the Board of Directors declared a dividend of $.58 per common share, payable on March 15, 2022 to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 1, 2022. We entered into an unsecured Five-Year Credit Agreement in December 2021, allowing us to borrow, on a revolving credit basis, up to $1.5 billion and expiring in December 2026. In December 2021, we entered into an unsecured 364-Day Credit Agreement to borrow, on a revolving credit basis, up to $1.0 billion at any time outstanding, to replace the $1.0 billion 364-day facility that was originally set to expire in January 2022. 45 The Five-Year and 364 Day Credit Agreements which had no outstanding borrowings as January 1, 2022, contain customary covenants and warranties, including specified restrictions on indebtedness, liens and a specified interest expense coverage ratio. If an event of default occurs, then, to the extent permitted, the administrative agents may terminate the commitments under the credit facilities, accelerate any outstanding loans under the agreements, and demand the deposit of cash collateral equal to the lender's letter of credit exposure plus interest. The Company was in compliance with all financial covenants contained in these agreements at January 1, 2022. Our Notes contain customary covenants that limit the ability of the Company and its restricted subsidiaries (as defined) to incur certain liens or enter into certain sale and lease-back transactions and also contain a change of control provision. There are no significant restrictions on the payment of dividends. We were in compliance with all covenants as of January 1, 2022. The Notes do not contain acceleration of maturity clauses that are dependent on credit ratings. A change in our credit ratings could limit our access to the U.S. short-term debt market and/or increase the cost of refinancing long-term debt in the future. However, even under these circumstances, we would continue to have access to our 364-Day Credit Facility, which expires in December 2022, as well as our Five-Year Credit Agreement, which expires in December 2026. This source of liquidity is unused and available on an unsecured basis, although we do not currently plan to use it. We monitor the financial strength of our third-party financial institutions, including those that hold our cash and cash equivalents as well as those who serve as counterparties to our credit facilities, our derivative financial instruments, and other arrangements. We continue to believe that we will be able to meet our interest and principal repayment obligations and maintain our debt covenants for the foreseeable future, while still meeting our operational needs, including the pursuit of select acquisitions. This will be accomplished through our strong cash flow, our short-term borrowings, and our maintenance of credit facilities on a global basis. Monetization and Accounts Payable programs We have a program in which customers could extend their payment terms in exchange for the elimination of early payment discounts (Extended Terms Program). In order to mitigate the net working capital impact of the Extended Terms Program for discrete customers, we entered into agreements to sell, on a revolving basis, certain trade accounts receivable balances to third party financial institutions (Monetization Programs). Transfers under the Monetization Programs are accounted for as sales of receivables resulting in the receivables being de-recognized from our Consolidated Balance Sheet. The Monetization Programs provide for the continuing sale of certain receivables on a revolving basis until terminated by either party; however the maximum funding from receivables that may be sold at any time is currently $1.1 billion, but may be increased or decreased as customers move in or out of the Extended Terms Program and as additional financial institutions move in or out of the Monetization Programs. Accounts receivable sold of $549 million and $783 million remained outstanding under this arrangement as of January 1, 2022 and January 2, 2021, respectively. The Monetization Programs are designed to directly offset the impact the Extended Terms Program would have on the days-sales-outstanding (DSO) metric that is critical to the effective management of the Company's accounts receivable balance and overall working capital. Current DSO levels within North America are consistent with DSO levels prior to the execution of the Extended Term Program and Monetization Programs. Refer to Note 2 within Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information related to the sale of accounts receivable. We have agreements with third parties (Accounts Payable Program) to provide accounts payable tracking systems which facilitate participating suppliers’ ability to monitor and, if elected, sell our payment obligations to designated third-party financial institutions. Participating suppliers may, at their sole discretion, make offers to sell one or more of our payment obligations prior to their scheduled due dates at a discounted price to participating financial institutions. Our goal is to capture overall supplier savings, in the form of payment terms or vendor funding, and the agreements facilitate the suppliers’ ability to sell payment obligations, while providing them with greater working capital flexibility. We have no economic interest in the sale of these suppliers’ receivables and no direct financial relationship with the financial institutions concerning these services. Our obligations to our suppliers, including amounts due and scheduled payment dates, are not impacted by suppliers’ decisions to sell amounts under the 46 arrangements. However, our right to offset balances due from suppliers against payment obligations is restricted by the agreements for those payment obligations that have been sold by suppliers. Refer to Note 1 within Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information related to accounts payable. If financial institutions were to terminate their participation in the Monetization Programs and we are not able to modify related customer payment terms, working capital could be negatively impacted. Additionally, working capital could be negatively impacted if we shorten our supplier payment terms as a result of supplier negotiations. For suppliers participating in the Accounts Payable Programs, financial institutions may terminate their participation or we could experience a downgrade in our credit rating that could result in higher costs to suppliers. If working capital is negatively impacted as a result of these events and we were unable to secure alternative programs, we may have to utilize our various financing arrangements for short-term liquidity or increase our long-term borrowings. CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS We have material contractual obligations that arise in the normal course of business and we believe cash flow from operations will be adequate to meet our liquidity and capital needs for at least the next 12 months. In addition to principal and interest payments on our outstanding long-term debt and notes payable balances, our contractual obligations primarily consist of lease payments, income taxes, pension and postretirement benefits and unconditional purchase obligations. A summary of our operating and finance lease obligations as of January 1, 2022 can be found in Note 7 “Leases and Other Commitments”, to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this report. A summary of principal payments for long-term debt as of January 1, 2022 can be found in Note 8 “Debt”, to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this report. Interest payments will be approximately $200 million per year from 2022 through 2026 and approximately $900 million in total from 2027 through the last debt maturity date. A summary of our pension and postretirement benefit obligations as of January 1, 2022 can be found in Notes 10 “Pension Benefits” and Note 11 “Nonpension Postretirement and Postemployment Benefits”, to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this report. See Note 13 “Income Taxes”, to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this report for discussion of uncertain tax positions. Our unconditional purchase obligations consist primarily of fixed commitments for raw materials to be utilized in the normal course of business and for marketing, advertising and other services. As of January 1, 2022, unconditional purchase obligations totaled approximately $1.5 billion. Approximately $1.2 billion of these unconditional purchase obligations will be settled in the ordinary course of business in the next the 12 months. As of January 1, 2022, we did not have any material off-balance sheet arrangements. 47 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Promotional expenditures Our promotional activities are conducted either through the retail trade or directly with consumers and include activities such as in-store displays and events, feature price discounts, consumer coupons, contests and loyalty programs. The costs of these activities are generally recognized at the time the related revenue is recorded, which normally precedes the actual cash expenditure. The recognition of these costs therefore requires management judgment regarding the volume of promotional offers that will be redeemed by either the retail trade or consumer. These estimates are made using various techniques including historical data on performance of similar promotional programs. Differences between estimated expense and actual redemptions are normally immaterial and recognized as a change in management estimate in a subsequent period. On a full-year basis, these subsequent period adjustments represent approximately 1% of our company’s net sales. However, our company’s total promotional expenditures (including amounts classified as a revenue reduction) are significant, so it is likely our results would be materially different if different assumptions or conditions were to prevail. Goodwill and other intangible assets We review our operating segment and reporting unit structure annually or as significant changes in the organization occur and assess goodwill impairment risk throughout the year by performing a qualitative review of entity-specific, industry, market and general economic factors affecting our reporting units with goodwill. Annually during the fourth quarter, in conjunction with our annual budgeting process, we may perform qualitative testing, or depending on factors such as prior-year test results, current year developments, current risk evaluations and other practical considerations, we may instead perform a quantitative impairment test. In our quantitative testing, we compare a reporting unit’s estimated fair value with its carrying value with a reporting unit’s fair value being estimated using market multiples. This approach employs market multiples based on either sales or earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization for companies that are comparable to our reporting units. In the event the fair value determined using the market multiple approach is close to carrying value, we may supplement the fair value determination using discounted cash flows that incorporates assumptions surrounding planned growth rates, market-based discount rates and estimates of residual value. The assumptions used for the impairment test are consistent with those utilized by a market participant performing similar valuations for our reporting units. These estimates are made using various inputs including historical data, current and anticipated market conditions, management plans, and market comparables. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, we consider the reporting unit impaired and reduce its carrying value of goodwill such that the reporting unit’s new carrying value is the estimated fair value. Similarly, we assess indefinite-life intangible assets impairment risk throughout the year by performing a qualitative review and assessing events and circumstances that could affect the fair value or carrying value of these intangible assets. Annually during the fourth quarter, in conjunction with our annual budgeting process, we may perform qualitative testing, or depending on factors such as prior-year test results, current year developments, current risk evaluations and other practical considerations, we may instead perform a quantitative impairment test. In the quantitative testing, we compare an intangible asset’s estimated fair value with its carrying value with the intangible asset’s fair value being determined using estimates of future cash flows to be generated from that asset based on estimates of future sales, as well as assumptions surrounding earnings growth rates, royalty rates and discount rates consistent with rates used by market participants. These estimates are made using various inputs including historical data, current and anticipated market conditions, management plans, and market comparables. If the carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair value, we consider the asset impaired and reduce its carrying value to the estimated fair value. We perform an impairment evaluation of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives at least annually during the fourth quarter of each year in conjunction with our annual budgeting process. We also evaluate the useful life over which a non-goodwill intangible asset with a finite life is expected to contribute directly or indirectly to our cash flows. Reaching a determination on useful life requires significant judgments and assumptions regarding the future effects of obsolescence, demand, competition, other economic factors (such as the stability of the industry, known technological advances, legislative action that results in an uncertain or changing regulatory environment, and expected changes in distribution channels), the level of required maintenance expenditures, and the expected lives of other related groups of assets. At January 1, 2022, goodwill and other intangible assets amounted to $8.2 billion, consisting primarily of goodwill and brands. Within this total, approximately $2.0 billion of non-goodwill intangible assets were classified as indefinite-lived, including $1.7 billion related to trademarks, comprised principally of Pringles and cracker-related trademarks. The majority of all goodwill and other intangible assets are recorded in our North America reporting unit. 48 The Company currently believes the fair value of goodwill and other intangible assets exceeds their carrying value and that those intangibles so classified will contribute indefinitely to cash flows. Our impairment testing performed through the fourth quarter of 2021 consisted of qualitative testing for all reporting unit goodwill and all indefinite-lived intangible assets, except for one brand, for which quantitative testing was performed. No heightened risk of impairment of individual intangible assets or reporting units was identified. We have $184 million at January 1, 2022 related to one brand in the North America operating segment that primarily relates to snack category products. In performing the quantitative test of this brand, fair value was determined using a relief from royalty valuation method that includes estimates, and significant assumptions, of future cash flows to be generated from that asset based on estimates of future sales, royalty rate and discount rate consistent with rates used by market participants. We determined the fair value of this brand exceeds its carrying value and no heightened risk of impairment exists for the asset. In the fourth quarter of 2020 we finalized a decision to reorganize part of our North America operating segment, including the RX reporting unit, effective at the beginning of fiscal 2021. The reorganization further integrated the RX business with the rest of the North American business and changed internal reporting provided to the segment manager. As a result of these changes, we re-evaluated our North American reporting units and determined that effective at the beginning of fiscal 2021, the RX reporting unit was combined with the North America reporting unit. We evaluated the related impacted reporting units for impairment on a before and after basis and concluded that the fair values of each reporting unit exceeded their carrying values. Retirement benefits Our company sponsors a number of U.S. and foreign defined benefit employee pension plans and also provides retiree health care and other welfare benefits in the United States and Canada. Plan funding strategies are influenced by tax regulations and asset return performance. A majority of plan assets are invested in a globally diversified portfolio of debt and equity securities with smaller holdings of other investments. We recognize the cost of benefits provided during retirement over the employees’ active working life to determine the obligations and expense related to our retiree benefit plans. Inherent in this concept is the requirement to use various actuarial assumptions to predict and measure costs and obligations many years prior to the settlement date. Major actuarial assumptions that require significant management judgment and have a material impact on the measurement of our consolidated benefits expense and accumulated obligation include the long-term rates of return on plan assets, the health care cost trend rates, the mortality table and improvement scale, and the interest rates used to discount the obligations for our major plans, which cover employees in the United States, United Kingdom and Canada. Our expense recognition policy for pension and nonpension postretirement benefits is to immediately recognize actuarial gains and losses in our operating results in the year in which they occur. Actuarial gains and losses are recognized annually as of our measurement date, which is our fiscal year-end, or when remeasurement is otherwise required under generally accepted accounting principles. Additionally, for purposes of calculating the expected return on plan assets related to pension and nonpension postretirement benefits we use the fair value of plan assets. To conduct our annual review of the long-term rate of return on plan assets, we model expected returns over a 20-year investment horizon with respect to the specific investment mix of each of our major plans. The return assumptions used reflect a combination of rigorous historical performance analysis and forward-looking views of the financial markets including consideration of current yields on long-term bonds, price-earnings ratios of the major stock market indices, and long-term inflation. Our U.S. plan model, corresponding to approximately 69% of our trust assets globally, currently incorporates a long-term inflation assumption of 2.5% and a 2021 weighted-average active management premium of 0.75% (net of fees) validated by historical analysis and future return expectations. Although we review our expected long-term rates of return annually, our benefit trust investment performance for one particular year does not, by itself, significantly influence our evaluation. Our expected rates of return have generally not been revised, provided these rates continue to fall within a “more likely than not” corridor of between the 25th and 75th percentile of expected long-term returns, as determined by our modeling process. Our assumed rate of return for U.S. plans in 2021 was 6.25%, equated to approximately the 65th percentile expectation of our model, respectively. Similar methods are used for various foreign plans with invested assets, reflecting local economic conditions. Foreign trust investments represent approximately 31% of our global benefit plan assets. Based on consolidated benefit plan assets at January 1, 2022, a 100 basis point increase or decrease in the assumed rate of return would correspondingly decrease or increase 2022 benefits expense by approximately $61 million. For the years ended January 1, 2022 and January 2, 2021, our actual return on plan assets exceeded (was less than) the recognized assumed return by $(33) million and $400 million, respectively. 49 Pension assets include a level 3 investment comprising 5% of total plan assets as of January 1, 2022. The investment, a buy-in annuity contract, is valued based on the calculated pension benefit obligation covered by the contract. To conduct our annual review of health care cost trend rates, we model our actual claims cost data over a five-year historical period, including an analysis of pre-65 versus post-65 age groups and other important demographic components in our covered retiree population. This data is adjusted to eliminate the impact of plan changes and other factors that would tend to distort the underlying cost inflation trends. This year, 2020 experience was adjusted to remove the estimated impact of COVID-19 claims. No adjustment was made to 2021 claims. Our initial health care cost trend rate is reviewed annually and adjusted as necessary to remain consistent with recent historical experience and our expectations regarding short-term future trends. Kellogg’s 5-year average claims inflation has been in the vicinity of 5.00% in recent years. Our initial trend rate for 2022 of 5.25% reflects the expectation that there may still be some additional impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic that have not yet been reflected, including continued upward pressure on trends due to the return of deferred care, ongoing COVID-19 associated costs, and increased prices driven by investment in the healthcare system to prepare for the next epidemic. Our initial rate remains flat for three years before trending downward by 0.25% per year, until the ultimate trend rate of 4.5% is reached. The ultimate trend rate is adjusted annually, as necessary, to approximate the current economic view on the rate of long-term inflation plus an appropriate health care cost premium. Any arising health care claims cost-related experience gain or loss is recognized in the year in which they occur. The experience gain arising from recognition of 2021 claims experience was approximately $44 million. Assumed mortality rates of plan participants are a critical estimate in measuring the expected payments a participant will receive over their lifetime and the amount of expense we recognize. In 2019, the Society of Actuaries (SOA) published updated mortality tables and an updated improvement scale. In 2021, the SOA released an updated improvement scale that incorporates an additional year of data. In determining the appropriate mortality assumptions as of 2021 fiscal year-end, we used the 2019 SOA tables with collar adjustments based on Kellogg’s current population, consistent with the prior year. In addition, based on mortality information available from the Social Security Administration and other sources, we developed assumptions for future mortality improvement in line with our expectations for future experience. The change to the mortality assumption increased the year-end pension and postretirement benefit obligations by $15 million and $5 million, respectively. To conduct our annual review of discount rates, we selected the discount rate based on a cash-flow matching analysis using Willis Towers Watson’s proprietary RATE:Link tool and projections of the future benefit payments constituting the projected benefit obligation for the plans. RATE:Link establishes the uniform discount rate that produces the same present value of the estimated future benefit payments, as is generated by discounting each year’s benefit payments by a spot rate applicable to that year. The spot rates used in this process are derived from a yield curve created from yields on the 40th to 90th percentile of U.S. high quality bonds. A similar methodology is applied in Canada and Europe, and in the United Kingdom the underlying yield curve was derived after further adjustments to the universe of bonds to remove government backed bonds. We use a December 31 measurement date for our defined benefit plans. Accordingly, we select yield curves to measure our benefit obligations that are consistent with market indices during December of each year. Based on consolidated obligations at January 1, 2022, a 25 basis point decline in the yield curve used for benefit plan measurement purposes would decrease 2022 benefits expense by approximately $8 million and would result in an immediate loss recognition of $207 million. All obligation-related actuarial gains and losses are recognized immediately in the year in which they occur. Despite the previously-described policies for selecting major actuarial assumptions, we periodically experience material actuarial gains or losses due to differences between assumed and actual experience and due to changing economic conditions. During 2021, we recognized a net actuarial gain of approximately $164 million compared to a net actuarial loss of approximately $151 million in 2020. The total net gain recognized in 2021 was driven by a gain of approximately $197 million of plan experience and assumption changes, including increases in the discount rate, partially offset by a $33 million loss from lower than expected asset returns. During 2021, we made contributions in the amount of $4 million to Kellogg’s global tax-qualified pension programs. This amount was mostly non-discretionary. Additionally, we contributed $16 million to our retiree medical programs. 50 Income taxes Our consolidated effective income tax rate is influenced by tax planning opportunities available to us in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. The calculation of our income tax provision and deferred income tax assets and liabilities is complex and requires the use of estimates and judgment. We recognize tax benefits associated with uncertain tax positions when, in our judgment, it is more likely than not that the positions will be sustained upon examination by a taxing authority. For tax positions that meet the more likely than not recognition threshold, we initially and subsequently measure the tax benefits as the largest amount that we judge to have a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Our liability associated with unrecognized tax benefits is adjusted periodically due to changing circumstances, such as the progress of tax audits, new or emerging legislation and tax planning. The tax position will be de-recognized when it is no longer more likely than not of being sustained. Significant adjustments to our liability for unrecognized tax benefits impacting our effective tax rate are separately presented in the rate reconciliation table of Note 13 within Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Management monitors the Company’s ability to utilize certain future tax deductions, operating losses and tax credit carryforwards, prior to expiration as well as the reinvestment assertion regarding our undistributed foreign earnings. Changes resulting from management’s assessment will result in impacts to deferred tax assets and the corresponding impacts on the effective income tax rate. Valuation allowances were recorded to reduce deferred tax assets to an amount that will, more likely than not, be realized in the future. FUTURE OUTLOOK The Company issued its initial financial guidance for 2022. Specifically, in spite of continued economy-wide supply challenges, the residual impact of the U.S. cereal labor strike, and further acceleration in cost inflation, the Company is projecting: Organic net sales growth of approximately 3%, led by price/mix growth. Currency-neutral adjusted operating profit growth of approximately 1-2%. Currency-neutral adjusted earnings per share to increase by approximately 1-2%. Net cash provided by operating activities of approximately $1.7-1.8 billion, with capital expenditure of about $0.6 billion. As a result, cash flow is expected to be in the $1.1-1.2 billion range. Excluded from this guidance, are any significant supply chain or other prolonged market disruptions related to the pandemic or global economy. Reconciliation of non-GAAP guidance measures We are unable to reasonably estimate the potential full-year financial impact of mark-to-market adjustments because these impacts are dependent on future changes in market conditions (interest rates, return on assets, and commodity prices). Similarly, because of volatility in foreign exchange rates and shifts in country mix of our international earnings, we are unable to reasonably estimate the potential full-year financial impact of foreign currency translation. As a result, these impacts are not included in the guidance provided. Therefore, we are unable to provide a full reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures used in our guidance without unreasonable effort as certain information necessary to calculate such measure on a GAAP basis is unavailable, dependent on future events outside of our control and cannot be predicted without unreasonable efforts by the Company. 51 See the table below that outlines the projected impact of certain other items that are excluded from non-GAAP guidance for 2022: Impact of certain items excluded from Non-GAAP guidance: Net Sales Operating Profit Earnings Per Share Business and portfolio realignment (pre-tax) $30-$40M $0.09-$0.12 Income tax impact applicable to adjustments, net** ~$0.03 Currency-neutral adjusted guidance* 1-2% 1-2% Organic guidance* ~ 3% * 2022 full year guidance for net sales, operating profit, and earnings per share are provided on a non-GAAP basis only because certain information necessary to calculate such measures on a GAAP basis is unavailable, dependent on future events outside of our control and cannot be predicted without unreasonable efforts by the Company. These items for 2022 include impacts of mark-to-market adjustments for pension plans (service cost, interest cost, expected return on plan assets, and other net periodic pension costs are not excluded), commodity contracts, certain equity investments and certain foreign currency contracts. The Company is providing quantification of known adjustment items where available. ** Represents the estimated income tax effect on the reconciling items, using weighted-average statutory tax rates, depending upon the applicable jurisdiction. Reconciliation of Non-GAAP amounts - Cash Flow Guidance (billions) Full Year 2022 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $1.7 - $1.8 Additions to properties ~ ($0.6) Cash Flow $1.1 - $1.2 ITEM 7A.