 Part I ITEM 1. BUSINESS OUR COMPANY Keurig Dr Pepper Inc. is a leading beverage company in North America, with a diverse portfolio of flavored (non-cola) CSDs, NCBs, including water (enhanced and flavored), ready-to-drink tea and coffee, juice, juice drinks, mixers and specialty coffee, and is a leading producer of innovative single serve brewing systems. With a wide range of hot and cold beverages that meet virtually any consumer need, KDP key brands include Keurig, Dr Pepper, Canada Dry, Snapple, Bai, Mott's, Core, Green Mountain and The Original Donut Shop. KDP has some of the most recognized beverage brands in North America, with significant consumer awareness levels and long histories that evoke strong emotional connections with consumers. KDP offers more than 125 owned, licensed and partner brands, including the top ten best-selling coffee brands and Dr Pepper as a leading flavored CSD in the U.S. according to IRi, available nearly everywhere people shop and consume beverages. KDP was created through the combination of the business operations of Keurig, a leading producer of innovative single serve brewing systems and specialty coffee in the U.S. and Canada, and DPS, a company built over time through a series of strategic acquisitions that brought together iconic beverage brands in North America such as Dr Pepper, Snapple, 7UP, Canada Dry, Mott's, A&W and the Peñafiel business in Mexico. The DPS Merger was consummated on July 9, 2018, at which time DPS changed its name to Keurig Dr Pepper Inc. and began trading on the NYSE under the symbol "KDP". Today, we trade on Nasdaq under the symbol KDP, and we are a member of the Nasdaq 100 Index. OUR STRENGTHS AND STRATEGY Our scalable business model provides a platform for future growth, focused on: Strong, balanced portfolio of leading, consumer-preferred brands with proven ability to expand via innovation, renovation and partnerships. We own a diverse portfolio of well-known CSD, coffee and NCB brands. Many of our brands enjoy high levels of consumer awareness, preference and loyalty rooted in their rich heritage. This portfolio provides our retailers, bottlers and distributors, and other customers with a wide variety of products to meet consumers' needs and provides us with a platform for growth and profitability. We drive growth in our business by a combination of innovating and renovating our portfolio of owned brands and partnerships with other leading beverage brands. We have a robust innovation program, which is designed to meet consumers' changing flavor and beverage preferences and to grow the number of households using our single serve brewers. We have cultivated relationships with leading beverage brands to create long-term partnerships that enable us and our partners to benefit equitably in future value creation, and where appropriate, we bring these partner brands into our owned portfolio through acquisitions. We continually evaluate making investments in companies that fill in whitespace in our portfolio. Flexible and scalable route-to-market network, with unique e-commerce expertise. We have strategically-located distribution capabilities, which enables us to better align our operations with our customers and our channels, ensure our products are available to meet consumer demand, reduce transportation costs and have greater control over the timing and coordination of new product launches. We actively manage transportation of our products using our fleet (owned and leased) of approximately 6,300 vehicles in the U.S. and 1,700 in Mexico, as well as third party logistics providers. With our Keurig.com website, we have a leading e-commerce platform which provides us insights and expertise in the e-commerce channel. We have been able to translate those insights and experience into our cold business as the number of fulfillment options that are better suited economically for beverages has evolved, leading to growth in the e-commerce channel. High-performing team driving better, faster decisions, enabled by technology. We believe that our team and the culture we have created, through the integration of two companies into one, are truly our competitive advantage. When we approach our customers, we do so as one fully combined modern beverage company. This go-to market system is strengthened through sophisticated data and technology. This includes the only point-of-sale consumption data available in the consumer packaged goods industry through our panel of connected brewers, predictive ordering powered by artificial intelligence for our frontline sales team within our DSD system, and best in class revenue growth management tools. Bold ESG commitments and collaborations making positive impacts. ESG is embedded in the way that we do business at KDP, ensuring that we make a positive impact in our environment and communities. Highly efficient business model, driving significant cash flow and investments. Our highly efficient business model, both from a cost and a cash perspective, gives us optionality to invest internally and look outside for acquisitions or other options to continue to drive growth and create value. 1 PRODUCTS AND DISTRIBUTION We are a leading integrated brand owner, manufacturer, and distributor of non-alcoholic beverages in the U.S., Canada, Mexico and the Caribbean. We have a portfolio of brands with the ability to satisfy every consumer need, anytime and anywhere – hot or cold, at home or on-the-go, at work or at play. The following presents highlights of our major owned and licensed brands as of December 31, 2021: Category Major Brands North America Market Position CSDs Dr Pepper #1 in its flavor category and #2 overall flavored CSD in the U.S. Canada Dry #1 ginger ale in the U.S. and Canada A&W #1 root beer in the U.S. Squirt #1 grapefruit CSD in the U.S. and a leading grapefruit CSD in Mexico Peñafiel #1 carbonated mineral water in Mexico Sunkist soda #1 orange flavored CSD in the U.S. Schweppes #2 ginger ale in the U.S. and Canada 7UP #2 lemon-lime CSD in the U.S. Crush #3 orange flavored CSD in the U.S. NCBs Snapple #2 premium shelf stable ready-to-drink tea in the U.S. Hawaiian Punch A leading branded shelf-stable fruit punch in the U.S. Mott's #1 branded multi-serve apple juice and apple sauce in the U.S. Clamato A leading spicy tomato juice in the U.S., Canada and Mexico Bai #3 enhanced water in the U.S. Core A rapidly growing water brand in the U.S. Single Serve Coffee Green Mountain #2 K-cup pod brand in the U.S. The Original Donut Shop #5 K-cup pod brand in the U.S. McCafé #6 K-cup pod brand in the U.S. Van Houtte #2 K-cup pod brand in Canada Single Serve Brewers Keurig #1 single serve brewer in the U.S. and Canada All information regarding our brand market positions in the U.S. is based on retail market dollars in 2021. U.S. beverage information is from IRi; U.S. brewing system information is from NPD. In the CSD market in the U.S. and Canada, we participate primarily in the flavored segment of the CSD category. In addition to our major brands above, we also own regional and smaller niche brands, such as Big Red, Sun Drop and Vernors. In the CSD market, we distribute finished beverages and manufacture beverage concentrates and fountain syrups. Our beverage concentrates, which are highly concentrated proprietary flavors used to make syrup or finished beverages, are used by our own Packaged Beverages segment, as well as sold to third party bottling companies through our Beverage Concentrates segment. According to IRi, we had a 24.2% share of the U.S. CSD market in 2021 (measured by retail sales), an increase of 40 bps versus 2020. We also manufacture fountain syrup that we sell to the foodservice industry directly and indirectly through bottlers or through other third parties. In the NCB market segment in the U.S., we participate primarily in the premium water category, including enhanced and flavored water, ready-to-drink tea, juice, juice drinks, and mixer categories. In addition to our major brands above, we also sell regional and smaller niche brands, such as Nantucket Nectars. We manufacture most of our NCBs as ready-to-drink beverages and distribute them through our own distribution network and through third parties or direct to our customers' warehouses. In addition to NCB beverages, we also manufacture Mott's apple sauce as a finished product. In Mexico and the Caribbean, we participate primarily in the carbonated mineral water, flavored CSDs, bottled water and vegetable juice categories. In Mexico, we manufacture and sell our brands through both our own manufacturing and distribution operations as well as third party bottlers. In the Caribbean, we distribute our products solely through third party distributors and bottlers. We have also begun to distribute certain products in other international jurisdictions through various third party bottlers and distributors. 2 Our Keurig single serve brewers are aimed at changing the way consumers prepare and enjoy coffee and other beverages both at home and away from home in places such as offices, restaurants, cafeterias, convenience stores and hotels. We create value by developing and selling our Keurig single serve brewers and by expanding Keurig brewer household adoption, which increased approximately 9% for the year ended December 31, 2021 to nearly 36 million U.S. households, based on third party survey data and our own estimates. Expansion of Keurig system household adoption enables sales of specialty coffee and a variety of other specialty beverages in K-Cup pods (including hot and iced teas, hot cocoa and other beverages) for use with Keurig brewers. We also offer traditional whole bean and ground coffee in other package types, including bags, fractional packages and cans. We, together with our partners, are able to bring consumers high-quality coffee and other beverage experiences from the brands they love, all through the one-touch simplicity and convenience of Keurig brewers. We currently offer a portfolio of more than 125 owned, licensed, partner and private label brands, including the top ten best-selling coffee brands in the U.S. based on IRi. PRODUCT AND PACKAGE INNOVATION We are focused on a robust innovation pipeline within our portfolio of products to build household penetration of our business. We regularly launch new brewers with new features and benefits, technological advances, sustainable attributes, and changes in aesthetics to provide a variety of options to suit individual consumer preferences. We also continuously innovate and renovate our portfolio of K-cup pods, CSDs and NCBs to provide an expansive array of flavors. During 2021, we launched our Keurig Supreme Plus Smart brewer, which incorporates our new BrewID technology platform. BrewID creates value through consumer connectivity in our brewers by recognizing the specific K-cup pod brand and roast to automatically customize brew settings, tracking K-cup pod usage to enable automatic reordering, and recommending future purchases and trials based on consumer preferences. Additionally, the Keurig mobile app provides enhanced control over temperature, strength, and beverage size. We also designed and launched easy-peel K-Cup pod lids with a tab to make it simpler to recycle. Within our NCB portfolio, in 2021, we completed the transition of our Core brand and select packaging sizes of our Snapple and Aguafiel brands to bottles made with 100% rPET. We expanded our Bai portfolio to include Bai Boost, a line of beverages with plant-based energy providing 110 mg of caffeine, in three flavors: Buka Black Raspberry, Togo Tangerine Citrus, and Watamu Strawberry Watermelon. We also launched the Mott’s Mighty collection in both the juice and applesauce categories. Mott’s Mighty juices are made with vitamins A, C and E to help support a healthy immune system and 50% less sugar, and Mott’s Mighty applesauces are made with no added sugars and added fiber to help support healthy digestive systems. In our CSD portfolio, we expanded our Zero Sugar collection to include 7UP, Sunkist and A&W. OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONS As of December 31, 2021, our operating structure consists of four reportable segments: Coffee Systems, Packaged Beverages, Beverage Concentrates, and Latin America Beverages. Segment financial data, including financial information about foreign and domestic operations, is included in Note 9 of the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Coffee Systems Our Coffee Systems segment is primarily a producer of innovative single serve brewers and specialty coffee in the U.S. and Canada. Our Coffee Systems segment manufactures over 80% of the pods in the single-serve K-Cup pod format in the U.S., on a dollar share basis. We manufacture and sell 100% of the K-Cup pods of the following brands to retailers, away from home channel participants and end-use consumers: Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, The Original Donut Shop, McCafé, Laughing Man, REVV, and Van Houtte. We manufacture and sell K-Cup pods for the following brands to our partners, who in turn sell them to retailers: Starbucks, Dunkin', Folgers, Peet's, Newman’s Own Organics, Caribou Coffee, Eight O’Clock, Maxwell House, and Tim Hortons, as well as private label arrangements. Generally, we are able to sell these brands to our away from home channel participants and end-use consumers. We also have agreements for manufacturing, distributing, and selling K-Cup pods for tea under brands such as Celestial Seasonings, Lipton and Tazo in addition to K-Cup pods of our own brand, Snapple. We also produce and sell K-Cup pods for cocoa, including through a licensing agreement for the Swiss Miss brand, and hot apple cider, including under our own brand, Mott's. Our Coffee Systems segment manufactures its K-Cup pods in facilities in North America that include specialty designed proprietary high-speed packaging lines using freshly roasted and ground coffee as well as tea, cocoa and other products. We offer high-quality, responsibly sourced coffee including certified single-origin, organic, flavored, limited edition and proprietary blends. We carefully select our coffee beans and appropriately roast the coffees to optimize their taste and flavor differences. We engineer and design most of our single serve brewers, where we then utilize third-party contract manufacturers located in various countries in Asia for brewer appliance manufacturing. We distribute our brewers using third-party distributors, retail partners and through our website at www.keurig.com. 3 In 2021, Walmart and Costco were the Coffee Systems segment's largest customers. The loss of one of those customers could have a material adverse effect on the Coffee Systems segment. Beverage Concentrates Our Beverage Concentrates segment is principally a brand ownership business where we manufacture and sell beverage concentrates and syrups in the U.S. and Canada. Most of the brands in this segment are CSD brands. Key brands include Dr Pepper, Canada Dry, Schweppes, Crush, Sunkist, A&W, SunDrop, 7UP, Squirt, Big Red, Hawaiian Punch and RC Cola. Beverage concentrates are shipped to third party bottlers, as well as to our own manufacturing systems, who combine them with carbonation, water, sweeteners and other ingredients, package the combined product in aluminum cans, PET bottles, and glass bottles, and sell them as a packaged beverage to retailers and, ultimately, the end consumer. Beverage concentrates are also manufactured into syrup, which is shipped to fountain customers, such as fast food restaurants, who mix the syrup with water and carbonation to create a finished beverage at the point of sale to consumers. Dr Pepper represents most of our fountain channel volume. Our Beverage Concentrates brands are sold by our bottlers through all major retail channels. As our Beverage Concentrates business is reliant upon a small number of customers, the loss of any of our bottlers in this segment could have a material adverse effect on the segment. Packaged Beverages Our Packaged Beverages segment is a manufacturing and distribution business of both NCBs and CSDs, as well as a brand ownership business, focused primarily on NCB brands. In this segment, we primarily manufacture and distribute packaged beverages of our brands to retailers and, ultimately, the end consumer. Additionally, in order to maximize the size and scale of our manufacturing and distribution operations, we also distribute packaged beverages for our partner brands and manufacture packaged beverages for other third parties in the U.S. and Canada. The larger CSD brands in this segment include Dr Pepper, Canada Dry, A&W, 7UP, Sunkist, Squirt, Big Red, RC Cola, and Vernors. The larger NCB brands in this segment include Snapple, Mott's, Bai, Hawaiian Punch, Clamato, Yoo-Hoo, Core, ReaLemon, evian, Vita Coco and Mr and Mrs T mixers. The majority of our Packaged Beverages net sales come from the manufacturing and distribution of our own brands and the contract manufacturing of certain private label and emerging brand beverages. We also recognize net sales in this segment from the distribution of our partner brands such as evian, Vita Coco, Polar Beverages seltzer water, A Shoc energy drinks, Peet's RTD coffee and Runa energy drinks. We provide a route-to-market for our partner brands seeking effective distribution for their new and emerging brands. These brands give us exposure in certain markets to fast growing segments of the beverage industry with minimal capital investment. We sell our Packaged Beverages products through our DSD and our WD systems, both of which include sales to all major retail channels. In 2021, Walmart was the Packaged Beverages segment's largest customer. The loss of this customer could have a material adverse effect on the Packaged Beverages segment. Latin America Beverages Our Latin America Beverages segment is a brand ownership, manufacturing and distribution business, with operations in Mexico representing approximately 90% of the segment's net sales. This segment participates mainly in the carbonated mineral water, flavored CSD, bottled water and vegetable juice categories. The largest brands include Peñafiel, Clamato, Squirt, Mott's, Dr Pepper, Crush and Aguafiel. In 2021, Walmart was the Latin America Beverages segment's largest customer. The loss of this customer could have a material adverse effect on the Latin America Beverages segment. OUR CUSTOMERS We primarily serve the following types of customers: Retailers Retailers include supermarkets, hypermarkets, mass merchandisers, club stores, e-commerce retailers, office superstores, vending machines, fountains, grocery and drug stores, convenience stores and other small outlets. Retailers purchase finished beverages, K-Cup pods, appliances and accessories directly from us. Our portfolio of strong brands, operational scale and experience in the beverage industry has enabled us to maintain strong relationships with major retailers in the U.S., Canada and Mexico. In 2021, our largest retailer was Walmart, representing approximately 16% of our consolidated net sales. 4 Bottlers and Distributors In the U.S. and Canada, we generally grant perpetual, exclusive licenses for CSD brands and packages to bottlers for specific geographic areas. These bottlers may be affiliated with Coca-Cola, with PepsiCo, or may be independent. These agreements prohibit bottlers and distributors from selling the licensed products outside their exclusive territory and selling any imitative products in that territory. Generally, we may terminate bottling and distribution agreements only for cause, change in control or breach of agreements and the bottler or distributor may terminate without cause upon giving certain specified notice and complying with other applicable conditions. Fountain agreements for bottlers generally are not exclusive for a territory, but do restrict bottlers from carrying imitative product in the territory. Certain NCB brands, such as Snapple, Bai, Core, Yoo-Hoo, Mistic and Nantucket Nectars are licensed for distribution in various territories to bottlers and a number of smaller distributors such as beer wholesalers, wine and spirit distributors, independent distributors and retail brokers. Partners We have differentiated ourselves and the Keurig brand through our ability to create and sustain partnerships with other leading coffee, tea and beverage brand companies through multi-year licensing and manufacturing agreements that best suit each brand's interests and strengths. Typically, we manufacture pods on behalf of our partners, who in turn sell them to retailers. As of December 31, 2021, our partner brands included, but were not limited to, Starbucks, Kirkland Signature, Dunkin', Great Value, Peet's, Caribou Coffee, Eight O’Clock, Folgers, Newman’s Own Organics, McCafé, Maxwell House, Kroger, Krispy Kreme, Celestial Seasonings, Lipton, Tazo, Panera, and Tim Hortons. Away from Home Channel Participants We distribute brewers, accessories and K-Cup pods (owned, licensed, and partner brands) to away from home channel participants, which include restaurants, hotel chains, and office coffee distributors. End-use Consumers We have a robust e-commerce platform at www.keurig.com where end-use consumers can purchase brewers, accessories, K-Cup pods and other coffee products such as bagged traditional coffee and cold brew. OUR COMPETITORS The beverage industry is highly competitive and continues to evolve in response to changing consumer preferences. Competition is generally based on brand recognition, taste, quality, price, availability, selection and convenience, as well as factors related to corporate responsibility and sustainability. We compete with multinational corporations with significant financial resources. In our bottling and manufacturing operations, we also compete with a number of smaller bottlers and distributors and a variety of smaller, regional and private label manufacturers. The following represents a list of our major competitors: Competitor Categories Coca-Cola CSDs, NCBs, Coffee The J.M. Smucker Company Packaged Coffee The Kraft Heinz Company Packaged Coffee Nestlé S.A. NCBs, Packaged Coffee, Single-serve brewers PepsiCo CSDs, NCBs, Coffee Although these companies offer competing brands in categories we participate in, they are also our partners and customers, as they purchase beverage concentrates or K-Cup pods directly from us. OUR MATERIAL RESOURCES Our Raw Materials The principal raw materials we use in our business, which we commonly refer to as ingredients and materials, approximate 59% of our cost of sales and include green coffee, PET bottles and caps, including both virgin and rPET, aluminum cans and ends, sweeteners, paper products, K-Cup pod packaging materials, fruit, glass bottles and enclosures, juices, teas, water, and other ingredients. We also use post-consumer recycled materials in the manufacturing of our single serve brewers. The availability, quality and costs of many of these materials have fluctuated, and may continue to fluctuate, over time. 5 When appropriate, we mitigate the exposure to volatility in the prices of certain commodities used in our production process and transportation to our customers through the use of various commodity derivative contracts or supplier pricing agreements. The intent of the contracts and agreements is to provide a certain level of predictability in our operating margins and our overall cost structure, while remaining in what we believe to be a competitive cost position. Ingredients and materials, excluding green coffee. Under many of our supply arrangements for these raw materials, the price we pay fluctuates along with certain changes in underlying commodities costs, such as aluminum in the case of cans and ends, natural gas in the case of glass bottles, resin in the case of pods, PET bottles and caps, corn in the case of sweeteners and pulp in the case of paperboard packaging. Green coffee. We purchase green coffee through outside brokers. We also develop and pursue direct relationships with farms, estates, cooperatives, and cooperative groups in order to support our broader traceability and sustainable supply chain initiatives. During 2021, nearly 100% of our delivered purchases of green coffee were responsibly sourced through third party sourcing programs, with the remaining purchased as conventional coffee due to increased demand and COVID-19-related impacts. Responsibly sourced means the coffee we purchase is grown and sold in adherence to a credible sourcing program that aligns with our Supplier Code of Conduct. Energy costs. In addition to ingredients and packaging costs, we are significantly impacted by changes in fuel costs, which can also fluctuate substantially, due to the large truck fleet we operate in our distribution operations and the energy costs consumed in the production process. The fuel costs associated with our distribution operations are reflected within our SG&A expenses. Our Intellectual Property Trademarks and Patents We possess a variety of intellectual property rights that are important to our business. We rely on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, patents and trade secrets to safeguard our proprietary rights, including our brands, our technologies, and ingredient and production formulas for our products. We own numerous trademarks in our portfolio within the U.S., Canada, Mexico and other countries. Depending upon the jurisdiction, trademarks are valid as long as they are in use and/or their registrations are properly maintained. In many countries outside the U.S., Canada and Mexico, the manufacturing and distribution rights to many of our CSD brands, including our Dr Pepper trademark and formula, are owned by third parties including, in certain cases, competitors such as Coca-Cola. We hold U.S. and international patents related to Keurig brewers and K-Cup pod technology. Of these, a majority are utility patents and the remainder are design patents. We view these patents as valuable assets but we do not view any single patent as critical to our success. We also have pending patent applications associated with Keurig brewers and K-Cup pod technology. We take steps that we believe are appropriate to protect such innovation. Licensing Arrangements We license various trade names from our partners in order to manufacture K-Cup pods. Although these licenses vary in length and other terms, they generally are long-term, cover the entire U.S. and/or Canada and generally include an upfront payment to the partner in order to use their trade names to manufacture and/or distribute the K-Cup pods. For CSDs and NCBs, we license various trademarks from third parties, which generally allow us to manufacture and distribute certain products or brands throughout the U.S. and/or Canada and Mexico. For example, we license trademarks for Sunkist soda, Stewart's, Rose's and Margaritaville from third parties. Although these licenses vary in length and other terms, they generally are long-term, cover the entire U.S. and/or Canada and Mexico and generally include a royalty payment to the licensor. For CSDs and NCBs in emerging and fast growing categories where we may not currently have a brand presence, we license various trademarks from third party partners, which generally allow us to manufacture and distribute certain products or brands throughout the U.S., Canada or Mexico. These partners view us as a distributor with strong route-to-market resources to grow their brands. Although these licenses vary in length and other terms, they generally are long-term, cover the entire U.S. and/or Canada and Mexico, and generally require a payment from the partner if the licensing agreement is terminated. In some instances, we make investments in these companies, which may include a path to acquire the company after a period of time based on a pre-determined formula. As of December 31, 2021, our portfolio of partner brands included, but was not limited to, Vita Coco coconut water, evian water, Polar Beverages seltzer water, A Shoc energy drinks, Peet's RTD Coffee, Runa energy drinks, and Don't Quit nutrition shakes. 6 OUR HUMAN CAPITAL RESOURCES Our Employees We have nearly 27,500 employees, primarily located in North America. In the U.S., we have approximately 21,500 employees, of which approximately 4,500 employees are covered by union collective bargaining agreements. In Mexico, we have approximately 4,500 employees, of which approximately 3,000 are covered by union collective bargaining agreements. In Canada, we have approximately 1,500 employees, with approximately 500 covered by union collective bargaining agreements. We also have a small number of employees in Europe and Asia. Our collective bargaining agreements generally address working conditions, as well as wage rates and benefits, and expire over varying terms over the next several years. We generally believe that these agreements can be renegotiated on terms satisfactory to us as they expire and that we have good relationships with our employees and their representative organizations. Our compensation programs are designed to ensure that we attract and retain the right talent. We generally review and consider median market pay levels when assessing total compensation, but pay decisions are based on a more comprehensive set of considerations such as company performance, individual performance, experience, and internal equity. We continually monitor key talent metrics including employee engagement and employee turnover. Due to the ongoing impacts of COVID-19 on the global economy and workforce, we have been experiencing higher employee turnover than in the past, particularly in our frontline workforce. Our employee benefits programs strive to deliver competitive benefits that are effective in attracting and retaining talent, that create a culture of well-being and inclusiveness, and that meet the diverse needs of our employees. Our total package of benefits is designed to support the physical, mental, and financial health of our employees, and we currently provide access to medical, dental, vision, life insurance and retirement benefits, as well as disability benefits, and assistance with major life activities such as adoption, childbirth, and eldercare, among other benefits. Our Culture Together with our employees, we created a set of core values that are a unifying force for our team and are the cornerstone of KDP's culture. These core values are: • Team First. Win together. Be the kind of person you want on your team. • Deliver Big. Achieve our commitments. Then push beyond the expected. • Think Bold. Challenge the usual. Dare to try something new. • Be Fearless and Fair. Tell the truth with courage. Listen and act with respect. Additionally, we have adopted a corporate code of conduct that applies to all of our employees, officers and our Board, which lays the foundation for ethical behavior for our team. Our code of conduct is available on our website at http://www.keurigdrpepper.com. Diversity and Inclusion In 2020, we began to focus on accelerating our work in the area of diversity and inclusion, and we made significant progress, despite the pandemic. We approached this effort as we approach critical business priorities, using our playbook from integration and transformation initiatives. As part of this process, we established executive-level governance, including participation by our Chairman and CEO, as well as a Diversity and Inclusion leadership team, comprised of committed leaders from across KDP to help set priorities and lead two-way dialogue throughout the organization, and launched eight Employee Resource Groups, among other initiatives. Based on our work thus far, in 2021 we set two new goals for KDP in the area of diversity and inclusion. Our first goal is to increase female representation in positions at and above the “director” management level, also known as “Director +”, by 25% by 2025; in 2020, our baseline year, women represented 26% of our Director + workforce. Our second goal is to increase people of color representation in our Director + workforce by 25% by 2025; in 2020, people of color represented 17% of our Director + workforce. During 2021, we rolled out an extensive diversity and inclusion training program across all employees except for frontline hourly employees, which provides weekly engagement in an online content platform and regular opportunities to apply, practice and reinforce the learnings from the program over the course of several months. In 2022, the concepts from the program will be shared through trainings and meetings designed to embed these concepts in the culture of our hourly frontline employees. 7 Global Employee Snapshot as of December 31, 2021 U.S. Employee Snapshot as of December 31, 2021 Employee Health and Safety KDP uses a wide variety of strategies and programs to support the health and safety of our employees. From training on risks from non-routine tasks, such as unexpected maintenance on equipment, to installing automated systems to prevent trailers from shifting during loading and unloading, our Environmental Health & Safety team considers all aspects of what our employees may encounter and works to minimize risk. Key to these efforts are data and preventive actions. KDP measures Lost Time Incident Rate, a reliable indication of Total Recordable Injuries Rate severity, and uses a risk reduction process that thoroughly analyzes injuries and near misses. Our Response to COVID-19 During the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, we have taken extraordinary measures to protect the safety and well-being of our employees. These measures include enhanced and comprehensive sanitation, physical distancing, and health protocols; directing most of our office employees to work from home, leveraging technology and collaboration tools; providing enhanced paid sick time, along with back-up childcare assistance, as needed; and provided temporary financial incentives to our frontline employees, who are working selflessly to manufacture, distribute and stock store shelves with the essential goods our communities need. SEASONALITY OF OUR BUSINESS The beverage market is subject to some seasonal variations. Our cold beverage sales are generally higher during the warmer months, while hot beverage sales are generally higher during the cooler months. Overall beverage sales can also be influenced by the timing of holidays and weather fluctuations. Sales of brewers and related accessories are generally higher during the second half of the year due to the holiday shopping season. 8 GOVERNMENTAL REGULATIONS ON OUR BUSINESS In the normal course of our business, we are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations in the countries in which we do business. Regulations apply to many aspects of our business, including our products and their ingredients, manufacturing, safety, labeling, transportation, recycling, advertising and sale. For example, our products and their manufacturing, labeling, marketing and sale in the U.S. are subject to various aspects of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the Federal Trade Commission Act, the Lanham Act, state consumer protection laws and state warning and labeling laws, such as Proposition 65. Certain cities and municipalities within the U.S. have also passed various taxes on the distribution of sugar-sweetened and diet beverages, which are at different stages of enactment. In Canada, Mexico and the European Union, the manufacturing, distribution, marketing and sale of many of our products are also subject to similar statutes and regulations. Various states, provinces and other authorities require deposits, eco-taxes, extended producer responsibility laws, or fees on certain products or packaging. Similar legislation or regulations may be proposed in the future at local, state and federal levels, both in the U.S. and elsewhere. In Mexico, the government has encouraged the beverage industry to comply voluntarily with collection and recycling programs for plastic materials, and we are in compliance with these programs. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY In all we do, we are committed to acting responsibly, and our ambition is to ensure our beverages make a positive impact with every drink. Drink Well. Do Good. is our corporate responsibility platform. Under this platform, we focus on our greatest opportunities for impact in our supply chain, the environment, our communities, and on the health and well-being of our consumers. We are committed to transparency and disclosure of corporate responsibility strategies, programs, progress and governance. In 2021, Newsweek named us to their 2022 America’s Most Responsible Companies list, and we were the top beverage company in their rankings. Additionally, in 2021, we were awarded the 2021 Reuters Responsible Business award in the Social and Human Capital category. Please refer to our Corporate Responsibility Report, available on our website at www.keurigdrpepper.com. Select highlights from the report are discussed below. Environment Product Design and Circular Economy Sustainable packaging is a top priority for us, and we continue to innovate for circular solutions across our portfolio. We have set a goal to make 100% of our packaging from recyclable or compostable material by 2025. We also want to further contribute to the circular economy with our commitment to use an average of 30% recycled material across our packaging portfolio by 2025. In 2021, we completed the transition of our Core brand and select packaging sizes of our Snapple and Aguafiel brands to bottles made with 100% rPET, and we are in the process of transitioning additional products to rPET. We also designed and launched easy-peel K-Cup pod lids with a tab to make it simpler to recycle. Already, the majority of our packaging is made from materials that can be recycled, and we are ensuring that our packaging materials are optimally designed to be among the highest value possible for recycled plastic buyers, which will increasingly include us. To reduce contamination in the recycling stream, we are continuing to replace dark-colored PET with PET that is preferred for recycling systems, making our bottles, labels and caps compatible with widely-used bottle recycling processes, and supporting consumer education campaigns on how to "recycle right". We have also partnered with the American Beverage Association and other beverage industry leaders on the Every Bottle Back initiative, a breakthrough effort to help facilitate our objectives to reduce our industry’s use of new plastic and increase the recycling and reuse of our PET bottles. The initiative includes a $100 million industry-backed fund to invest in improved sorting, processing and collection efforts to directly support the increase in quality and availability of recycled plastic across the country. In 2020, we achieved our goal of making all of our K-Cup pods sold in the U.S. and Canada from recyclable materials. The K-Cup pods are made of polypropylene #5 plastic, and we continue to engage with municipalities and recycling facilities to advance the quantity and quality of recycled polypropylene. To that end, KDP is a cofounder and the largest funder of the Polypropylene Recycling Coalition, an effort led by The Recycling Partnership to advance polypropylene recycling in the U.S. KDP invested $10 million in the coalition and is joined by leading brands, recyclers, retailers, converters and producers of polypropylene, all of whom have also provided funding to the coalition. Improving packaging solutions for product quality, consumer use, recoverability and reuse requires collaboration of all parties along the value chain. Using our strength in forming partnerships, we collaborate closely with a number of stakeholders, including industry groups, non-governmental organizations and investment firms, to move our commitments beyond independent ambitions to collective action. 9 Sustainable Facilities As we invest in infrastructure, we have focused on sustainably built facilities. Our new K-cup pod manufacturing site in Spartanburg, South Carolina, is the largest industrial manufacturing facility certified under the LEEDv4 BD+C rating system in North America, and it includes a separation room that moves all waste from production to be recycled, reused, repurposed or converted to energy. Additionally, our new high-speed cold beverage production facility in Allentown, Pennsylvania, incorporates sustainability focused design, including a central room with magnetic bearing chillers that provide cooling for air conditioning as well as chilled water for production processes, a highly energy-efficient approach. Our new Frisco, Texas headquarters location is LEED v4 ID+C Gold certified, and our Newbridge, Ireland manufacturing facility is focused on renewable energy sources, with 100% of its energy provided by wind in 2021. Climate Change KDP is working to address climate change and build the resilience of our business and supply chain. In 2019, we laid the groundwork for important climate targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from a 2018 baseline. This foundation included a corporate policy, governance structures and greater transparency. Our targets have been approved by the Science Based Targets initiative and are in line with the reductions that are required to meet the Paris Agreement on climate change goal of keeping global warming well below 2 degrees Celsius. Our climate goals provide a path for us to reduce our share of greenhouse gas emissions through continuation of existing efforts and the development of new focus areas, such as packaging improvements and value chain engagement. We report non-financial data annually on our climate efforts to CDP Climate. Water Stewardship Water is a precious natural resource that is essential to our business. As water is the primary ingredient in most of our beverages, we have a particular responsibility to be good stewards of water use in our operations, our communities and throughout our supply chain. Our water stewardship goals are focused on safeguarding water resources and building healthy communities resilient to climate change. We conduct periodic water risk assessments of our operations and supply chain. To refine our understanding of challenges for our high water-risk sites, we assess each site in the context of the surrounding watershed, the local water issues and other local entities’ interest and perspective on those issues. We have public goals and programs to both increase operational efficiency and to replenish water through conservation and restoration projects with conservation organizations in communities where we operate that have high water risk. We report non-financial data annually on our water stewardship efforts to CDP Water. Supply Chain We engage our suppliers, farmers and business partners to ensure sustainable practices are used across our supply chain. Having achieved our previous goal of responsibly sourcing 100% of our coffee by 2020, we have now extended that goal to include cocoa and will look to add additional priority crops over time. We continue working towards our goal of 100% responsibly sourced brewers. From 2021, we are also building out new programs focused on supporting regenerative agriculture in our coffee, corn and apple supply chains, as well as advancing inclusion and improving livelihoods for the people in KDP’s upstream supply chain. Our participation in the Business for Inclusive Growth (B4IG) coalition continues to inform our efforts around an inclusive sourcing approach for KDP. Health and Well-Being We are committed to providing a balanced portfolio of beverage options and the resources consumers need to make informed choices for positive hydration, including an expansion of our product offerings that deliver nutritional and functional benefits, as well as reducing sugar and calories. We have dramatically transformed our portfolio over the past decade, offering a low- or no-calorie option for virtually every full-calorie brand in our portfolio, and we have also added smaller portion-size offerings. We are collaborating with Partnership for a Healthier America, which is a national nonprofit working to transform the food landscape in pursuit of health equity in the U.S. Our approach to product development and marketing is rooted in what our diverse universe of consumers want from their beverage occasion. We are committed to advertising our products in a responsible and truthful manner, aligned with the Children’s Food and Beverage Advertising Initiative, and our beverage containers include voluntary product transparency with front-of-pack calorie labeling. We continue to work on industry solutions through our work with the Balance Calories Initiative, managed by the American Beverage Association. The Balance Calories Initiative is the single-largest voluntary effort by an industry to help fight obesity. OTHER INFORMATION Our website address is www.keurigdrpepper.com. Information on our website is not incorporated by reference in this document. We make available, free of charge through this website, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. 10 MARKET AND INDUSTRY DATA The market and industry data in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is from IRi, an independent industry source, and is based on retail dollar sales and sales volumes in 2021. Although we believe that this independent source is reliable, we have not verified the accuracy or completeness of this data or any assumptions underlying such data. IRi is a marketing information provider, primarily serving consumer packaged goods manufacturers and retailers. We use IRi data as our primary management tool to track market performance because it has broad and deep data coverage, is based on consumer transactions at retailers, and is reported to us monthly. IRi data provides measurement and analysis of marketplace trends such as market share, retail pricing, promotional activity and distribution across various channels, retailers and geographies. Measured categories provided to us by IRi include K-Cup pods, CSDs, including energy drinks and carbonated waters, and NCBs, including ready-to-drink teas and coffee, single-serve and multi-serve juice and juice drinks, sports drinks, still waters and non-alcoholic mixers. IRi also provides data on other food items such as apple sauce. IRi data we present in this report is from IRi service, which compiles data based on scanner transactions in key retail channels, including grocery stores, mass merchandisers (including Walmart), club stores (excluding Costco), drug chains, convenience stores and gas stations. However, this data does not include the fountain or vending channels, or small independent retail outlets, which together represent a meaningful portion of the U.S. beverage market. This data does not include certain customers and e-commerce sales which represents a significant portion of our Coffee Systems segment. Our market share data for our brewers is based on information provided by NPD. NPD data is based upon Consumer Panel Track SM (consumer-reported sales) calibrated with selected retailers' point of sale data, based on NPD's definition of the coffeemaker category. The data presented is based upon The NPD/Consumer Tracking Service for Coffeemakers in the U.S. and represents the twelve month period ended December 31, 2021. 11 ITEM 1A.