 Part I ITEM 1. BUSINESS OUR COMPANY Keurig Dr Pepper Inc. is a leading beverage company in North America, with a diverse portfolio of flavored (non-cola) CSD s, NCB s, including water (enhanced and flavored), ready-to-drink tea and coffee, juice, juice drinks, mixers and specialty coffee, and is a leading producer of innovative single serve brewing systems. With a wide range of hot and cold beverages that meet virtually any consumer need, KDP key brands include Keurig, Dr Pepper, Canada Dry, Snapple, Bai, Mott's, Core, Green Mountain and The Original Donut Shop. KDP has some of the most recognized beverage brands in North America, with significant consumer awareness levels and long histories that evoke strong emotional connections with consumers. KDP offers more than 125 owned, licensed, partner and allied brands, including the top ten best-selling coffee brands and Dr Pepper as a leading flavored CSD in the U.S. according to IRi, available nearly everywhere people shop and consume beverages. We have more than 25,500 employees, primarily located in North America. HISTORY OF OUR BUSINESS Keurig Green Mountain, Inc. Maple is a holding company that conducts substantially all of its business through Keurig, a leading producer of innovative single serve brewing systems and specialty coffee in the U.S. and Canada. Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc. was incorporated in July 1993 and acquired Keurig, Inc. in June 2006 to form Keurig. In December 2015, JAB formed an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, Maple Holdings Acquisition Corp. In February 2016, Maple was formed by JAB. In March 2016, Maple, through Maple Holdings Acquisition Corp., completed the Keurig Acquisition. Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. DPS was built over time through a series of strategic acquisitions that brought together iconic beverage brands in North America within Cadbury, building on the Schweppes business by adding brands such as Dr Pepper, Snapple, 7UP, Canada Dry, Mott's, A&W and the Peñafiel business in Mexico. DPS was incorporated in Delaware on October 24, 2007. In 2008, Cadbury contributed its beverage subsidiaries in the U.S., Canada, Mexico and the Caribbean to DPS. The DPS Merger On January 29, 2018, DPS, Maple and Merger Sub entered into the DPS Merger Agreement, whereby Merger Sub would be merged with and into Maple, with Maple surviving the merger as a wholly-owned subsidiary of DPS. The DPS Merger was consummated on July 9, 2018, at which time DPS changed its name to Keurig Dr Pepper Inc. and began trading on the NYSE under the symbol "KDP". Refer to Note 3 of the Notes to our Audited Consolidated Financial Statements for further information related to the DPS Merger. PRODUCTS AND DISTRIBUTION Through the DPS Merger, we have brought together two iconic companies to create a unified business with a fresh approach to the beverage industry and the size and scale to achieve things not possible separately. We have a family of brands with the ability to satisfy every consumer need, anytime and anywhere – hot or cold, at home or on-the-go, at work or at play. We are a leading integrated brand owner, manufacturer, and distributor of non-alcoholic beverages in the U.S., Canada, Mexico and the Caribbean. 1 The following presents highlights of our major owned and licensed brands as of December 31, 2019 : Category Major Brands North America Market Position CSDs Dr Pepper #1 in its flavor category and #2 overall flavored CSD in the U.S. Canada Dry #1 ginger ale in the U.S. and Canada Squirt #1 grapefruit CSD in the U.S. and a leading grapefruit CSD in Mexico Peñafiel #1 carbonated mineral water in Mexico Sunkist soda #1 orange flavored CSD in the U.S. Crush #3 orange flavored CSD in the U.S. 7UP #2 lemon-lime CSD in the U.S. A&W #1 root beer in the U.S. Schweppes #2 ginger ale in the U.S. and Canada NCBs Snapple #2 premium shelf stable ready-to-drink tea in the U.S. Hawaiian Punch A leading branded shelf-stable fruit punch in the U.S. Mott's #1 branded multi-serve apple juice and apple sauce in the U.S. Clamato A leading spicy tomato juice in the U.S., Canada and Mexico Bai #3 enhanced water in the U.S. Core A rapidly growing water brand in the U.S. Single Serve Coffee Green Mountain #2 K-cup pod in the U.S. The Original Donut Shop #5 K-cup pod in the U.S. Van Houtte #2 K-cup pod in Canada Single Serve Brewing Systems Keurig #1 single serve brewing system in the U.S. and Canada All information regarding our brand market positions in the U.S. is based on retail market dollars in 2019. U.S. beverage information is from IRi; U.S. brewing system information is from NPD. In the CSD market in the U.S. and Canada, we participate primarily in the flavored segment of the CSD category. In addition to our major brands above, we also own regional and smaller niche brands, such as Sun Drop, Big Red and Vernors. In the CSD market, we distribute finished beverages and manufacture beverage concentrates and fountain syrups. Our beverage concentrates, which are highly concentrated proprietary flavors used to make syrup or finished beverages, are used by our own Packaged Beverages segment, as well as sold to third party bottling companies through our Beverage Concentrates segment. According to IRi, we had a 22.7% share of the U.S. CSD market in 2019 (measured by retail sales), an increase of 60 bps versus 2018. We also manufacture fountain syrup that we sell to the foodservice industry directly and indirectly through bottlers or through other third parties. In the NCB market segment in the U.S., we participate primarily in the water, including enhanced and flavored water, ready-to-drink tea, juice, juice drinks, and mixer categories. In addition to our major brands above, we also sell regional and smaller niche brands, such as Nantucket Nectars. We manufacture most of our NCBs as ready-to-drink beverages and distribute them through our own distribution network and through third parties or direct to our customers' warehouses. In addition to NCB beverages, we also manufacture Mott's apple sauce as a finished product. In Mexico and the Caribbean, we participate primarily in the carbonated mineral water, flavored CSDs, bottled water and vegetable juice categories. In Mexico, we manufacture and sell our brands through both our own manufacturing and distribution operations as well as third party bottlers. In the Caribbean, we distribute our products solely through third party distributors and bottlers. We have also begun to distribute certain products in other international jurisdictions through various third party bottlers and distributors. Our Keurig single serve brewing systems are aimed at changing the way consumers prepare and enjoy coffee and other beverages both at home and away from home in places such as offices, restaurants, cafeterias, convenience stores and hotels. We create value by developing and selling our Keurig single serve brewing system and by expanding Keurig system household adoption, which increased 7% for the year ended December 31, 2019 to approximately 30 million U.S. households, based on third party survey data and our estimates. Expansion of Keurig system household adoption enables sales of specialty coffee and a variety of other specialty beverages in K-Cup pod s (including hot and iced teas, hot cocoa and other beverages) for use with Keurig brewing systems. We also offer traditional whole bean and ground coffee in other package types, including bags, fractional packages and cans. We, together with our partners, are able to bring consumers high-quality coffee and other beverage experiences from the brands they love, all through the one-touch simplicity and convenience of Keurig brewing systems. We currently offer a portfolio of more than 125 owned, licensed, partner and private label brands, including the top ten best-selling coffee brands in the U.S. based on IRi, as part of the Keurig brewing system. 2 OUR STRENGTHS AND STRATEGY The key strengths of our business are: Strong portfolio of leading, consumer-preferred brands. We own a diverse portfolio of well-known CSD, coffee and NCB brands. Many of our brands enjoy high levels of consumer awareness, preference and loyalty rooted in their rich heritage. This portfolio provides our retailers, bottlers and distributors, and other customers with a wide variety of products to meet consumers' needs and provides us with a platform for growth and profitability. Scale distribution and selling system. We have strategically-located distribution capabilities, which enables us to better align our operations with our customers and our channels, to ensure our products are available to meet consumer demand, to reduce transportation costs and to have greater control over the timing and coordination of new product launches. We actively manage transportation of our products using our fleet (owned and leased) of approximately 6,000 vehicles in the U.S. and 1,700 in Mexico, as well as third party logistics providers. Innovation, renovation, acquisition and partnering capabilities. We drive growth in our business by a combination of innovating and renovating our portfolio of owned brands and partnerships with other leading beverage brands. We have a robust innovation program, which is designed to meet consumers' changing flavor and beverage preferences and to grow the number of households using our single serve brewing systems. We have cultivated relationships with leading beverage brands to create long-term partnerships that enable us and our partners to benefit equitably in future value creation, and where appropriate, we bring these partner and allied brands into our owned portfolio through acquisitions. We continually evaluate making investments in companies that fill in whitespace in our portfolio with a pre-negotiated formula to acquire these unconsolidated affiliates at certain milestones. Highly efficient business model. Our highly efficient business model, both from a cost and a cash perspective, gives us optionality to invest internally and look outside for acquisitions or other options to continue to drive growth and create value. OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONS As of December 31, 2019, our operating structure consists of four reporting segments: Coffee Systems, Packaged Beverages, Beverage Concentrates, and Latin America Beverages. Segment financial data, including financial information about foreign and domestic operations, is included in Note 19 of the Notes to our Audited Consolidated Financial Statements. Coffee Systems Our Coffee Systems segment is primarily a producer of innovative single serve brewing systems and specialty coffee in the U.S. and Canada. Our brewing systems are aimed at changing the way consumers prepare and enjoy coffee and other beverages, both at home and away from home in places such as offices, restaurants, cafeterias, convenience stores and hotels. We develop and sell a variety of Keurig brewers, brewer accessories and other coffee-related equipment. In addition to coffee, we produce and sell a variety of other specialty beverages in K-Cup pod s (including hot and iced teas, hot cocoa and other beverages) for use with Keurig brewing systems. We also offer traditional whole bean and ground coffee in other package types, including bags, fractional packages and cans. Our Coffee Systems segment manufactures over 75% of the pods in the single-serve K-Cup pod format in the U.S. We manufacture and sell 100% of the K-Cup pod s of our own brands, such as Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, The Original Donut Shop, Laughing Man, REVV, and Van Houtte. We have licensing and manufacturing agreements with our partner brands, including brands such as Starbucks, Dunkin' Donuts, Folgers, Newman’s Own Organics, McCafé, Peet's Coffee, Caribou Coffee, Eight O’Clock, Maxwell House,and Tim Hortons, and private label arrangements. Our Coffee Systems segment also has agreements for manufacturing, distributing, and selling K-Cup pod s for tea under brands such as Celestial Seasonings, Lipton and Tazo in addition to K-Cup pod s of our own brand, Snapple. We also produce and sell K-Cup pod s for cocoa, including through a licensing agreement for the Swiss Miss brand, and hot apple cider. Our Coffee Systems segment manufactures its K-Cup pod s in facilities in North America that include specialty designed proprietary high-speed packaging lines using freshly roasted and ground coffee as well as tea, cocoa and other products. We offer high-quality coffee including certified single-origin, organic, flavored, limited edition and proprietary blends. We carefully select our coffee beans and appropriately roast the coffees to optimize their taste and flavor differences. We engineer and design most of our single serve brewing systems, where we then utilize third-party contract manufacturers located in various countries in Asia for brewer appliance manufacturing. We distribute our Coffee Systems products using third-party distributors, retail partners and through e-commerce, including our website at www.keurig.com. In 2019, Walmart and Costco were the Coffee Systems segment's largest customers. The loss of one of those customers would have a material adverse effect on the Coffee Systems segment. 3 Packaged Beverages Our Packaged Beverages segment is principally a brand ownership, manufacturing and distribution business. In this segment, we primarily manufacture and distribute packaged beverages of our brands. Additionally, in order to maximize the size and scale of our manufacturing and distribution operations, we also distribute packaged beverages for our allied brands and manufacture packaged beverages for other third parties in the U.S. and Canada. Our larger NCB brands in this segment include Snapple, Mott's, Bai, Clamato, Hawaiian Punch, Core, Yoo-Hoo, ReaLemon, Vita Coco coconut water, evian, Mr and Mrs T mixers, Forto Coffee, and A Shoc. Our larger CSD brands in this segment include Dr Pepper, Canada Dry, 7UP, A&W, Sunkist soda, Squirt, Big Red, RC Cola, and Vernors. Approximately 95% of our 2019 Packaged Beverages net sales come from the manufacturing and distribution of our own brands and the contract manufacturing of certain private label and emerging brand beverages. The remaining portion of our 2019 Packaged Beverages net sales came from the distribution of our allied brands such as Vita Coco coconut water, evian water, Neuro drinks, High Brew RTD Coffee, Forto Coffee shots, A Shoc energy drinks, Peet's RTD Coffee and Runa energy drinks. We provide a route-to-market for third party brand owners seeking effective distribution for their new and emerging brands. These brands give us exposure in certain markets to fast growing segments of the beverage industry with minimal capital investment. Our Packaged Beverages products are manufactured in multiple facilities across the U.S. and are sold or distributed to retailers and their warehouses by our own distribution network or by third party distributors. We sell our Packaged Beverages products through our DSD and our WD systems, both of which include sales to all major retail channels, including supermarkets, fountains, mass merchandisers, club stores, vending machines, convenience stores, gas stations, small groceries, drug chains and dollar stores. In 2019, Walmart was the Packaged Beverages segment's largest customer. The loss of this customer could have a material adverse effect on the Packaged Beverages segment. Beverage Concentrates Our Beverage Concentrates segment is principally a brand ownership business where we manufacture and sell beverage concentrates in the U.S. and Canada. Most of the brands in this segment are CSD brands. Key brands include Dr Pepper, Canada Dry, Crush, Schweppes, Sun Drop, Sunkist soda, A&W, 7UP, Squirt, Big Red, RC Cola and Hawaiian Punch. Almost all of our beverage concentrates are manufactured at our plant in St. Louis, Missouri. Beverage concentrates are shipped to third party bottlers, as well as to our own manufacturing systems, who combine them with carbonation, water, sweeteners and other ingredients, package the combined product in aluminum cans, PET containers and glass bottles, and sell them as a finished beverage to retailers. Beverage concentrates are also manufactured into syrup, which is shipped to fountain customers, such as fast food restaurants, who mix the syrup with water and carbonation to create a finished beverage at the point of sale to consumers. Dr Pepper represents most of our fountain channel volume. Our Beverage Concentrates brands are sold by our bottlers through all major retail channels including supermarkets, fountains, mass merchandisers, club stores, vending machines, convenience stores, gas stations, small groceries, drug chains and dollar stores. In 2019, the PepsiCo affiliated and Coca-Cola affiliated bottler systems were the Beverage Concentrates segment's largest customers. The loss of one of those customers would have a material adverse effect on the Beverage Concentrates segment. Unlike the majority of our other CSD brands, approximately 53% of Dr Pepper, Schweppes, and Crush finished good volumes in the U.S. and Canada are distributed through either the PepsiCo affiliated or Coca-Cola affiliated bottler systems. Latin America Beverages Our Latin America Beverages segment is a brand ownership, manufacturing and distribution business, with operations in Mexico representing approximately 90% of the segment's net sales. This segment participates mainly in the carbonated mineral water, flavored CSD, bottled water and vegetable juice categories, with particular strength in carbonated mineral water, vegetable juice categories and grapefruit flavored CSDs. The largest brands include Peñafiel, Squirt, Clamato, Aguafiel and Crush. In Mexico, we manufacture and distribute our products through our bottling operations and third party bottlers and distributors. We sell our finished beverages through all major Mexican retail channels, including small outlets, supermarkets, hypermarkets, convenience stores and on-premise channels. In the Caribbean, we distribute our products through third party bottlers and distributors. We have also begun to distribute certain products in other international jurisdictions through various third party bottlers and distributors. In 2019, Walmart and OXXO were the Latin America Beverages segment's largest customers. The loss of one of those customers would have a material adverse effect on the Latin America Beverages segment. 4 OUR CUSTOMERS We primarily serve the following types of customers: Retailers Retailers include supermarkets, mass merchandisers, club stores, e-commerce retailers, office superstores, and convenience stores. Retailers purchase finished beverages, K-Cup pod s, appliances and accessories directly from us. Our portfolio of strong brands, operational scale and experience in the beverage industry has enabled us to maintain strong relationships with major retailers in the U.S., Canada and Mexico. In 2019, our largest retailer was Walmart, representing approximately 13% of our consolidated net sales. Bottlers and Distributors In the U.S. and Canada, we generally grant perpetual, exclusive licenses for CSD brands and packages to bottlers for specific geographic areas. These agreements prohibit bottlers and distributors from selling the licensed products outside their exclusive territory and selling any imitative products in that territory. Generally, we may terminate bottling and distribution agreements only for cause, change in control or breach of agreements and the bottler or distributor may terminate without cause upon giving certain specified notice and complying with other applicable conditions. Fountain agreements for bottlers generally are not exclusive for a territory, but do restrict bottlers from carrying imitative product in the territory. In 2010, we completed the licensing of certain brands to PepsiCo and Coca-Cola. The agreements have an initial period of 20 years with automatic 20 -year renewal periods and require PepsiCo, Coca-Cola and certain Coca-Cola affiliated bottlers to meet certain performance conditions. Certain NCB brands, such as Snapple, Bai, Core, Yoo-Hoo, Mistic and Nantucket Nectars are licensed for distribution in various territories to bottlers and a number of smaller distributors such as beer wholesalers, wine and spirit distributors, independent distributors and retail brokers. Partners We have differentiated ourselves and the Keurig brand through our ability to create and sustain partnerships with other leading coffee, tea and beverage brand companies through multi-year licensing and manufacturing agreements that best suit each brand's interests and strengths. Typically, we manufacture pods on behalf of our partners, who in turn sell them to retailers. As of December 31, 2019, our partner brands included, but were not limited to, Starbucks, Kirkland Signature, Dunkin' Donuts, Great Value, Peet's Coffee, Caribou Coffee, Eight O’Clock, Folgers, Newman’s Own Organics, McCafé, Maxwell House, Kroger, Krispy Kreme, Celestial Seasonings, Lipton, Tazo, Panera, and Tim Hortons. Away from Home Channel Participants We distribute brewers, accessories and K-Cup pod s (owned, licensed, and partner brands) to away from home channel participants, which include restaurants, hotel chains, and office coffee distributors. End-use Consumers We have developed a robust e-commerce platform at www.keurig.com where end-use consumers can purchase brewers, accessories, K-Cup pod s and other coffee products such as bagged traditional coffee, cold brew and RTD coffee shots. ALLIED BRANDS As a result of our distribution capabilities, we believe brand owners view us as a partner with strong route-to-market resources to grow their brands. These partnerships allow us to rapidly participate in growth in emerging and fast growing categories where we do not currently have a brand presence. We sometimes make an investment in each company. As of December 31, 2019, our portfolio of allied brands we distribute included, but was not limited to, Vita Coco coconut water, evian water, Neuro drinks, High Brew RTD Coffee, Forto Coffee shots, A Shoc energy drinks, Peet's RTD Coffee and Runa energy drinks. OUR COMPETITORS The beverage industry is highly competitive and continues to evolve in response to changing consumer preferences. Competition is generally based on brand recognition, taste, quality, price, availability, selection and convenience. We compete with multinational corporations with significant financial resources. In our bottling and manufacturing businesses, we also compete with a number of smaller bottlers and distributors and a variety of smaller, regional and private label manufacturers. 5 The following represents a list of our major competitors: Competitor Categories Coca-Cola CSDs, NCBs, Coffee Kraft Heinz Packaged Coffee Nestlé NCBs (Water), Packaged Coffee, Single-serve brewing systems PepsiCo CSDs, NCBs, Coffee The J.M. Smucker Company Packaged Coffee Although these companies offer competing brands in categories we participate in, they are also our partners and customers, as they purchase beverage concentrates or K-Cup pod s directly from us. OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY We possess a variety of intellectual property rights that are important to our business. We rely on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, patents and trade secrets to safeguard our proprietary rights, including our brands, our technologies, and ingredient and production formulas for our products. We own numerous trademarks in our portfolio within the U.S., Canada, Mexico and other countries. Depending upon the jurisdiction, trademarks are valid as long as they are in use and/or their registrations are properly maintained. In many countries outside the U.S., Canada and Mexico, our rights to many of our CSD brands, including our Dr Pepper trademark and formula, were sold by Cadbury prior to 2008 to third parties including, in certain cases, to competitors such as Coca-Cola. We license various trademarks from third parties, which generally allow us to manufacture and distribute certain products or brands throughout the U.S. and/or Canada and Mexico. For example, we license from third parties the Sunkist soda, Stewart's, Rose's and Margaritaville trademarks. Although these licenses vary in length and other terms, they generally are long-term, cover the entire U.S. and/or Canada and Mexico and generally include a royalty payment to the licensor. We hold U.S. and international patents related to Keurig brewing systems and K-Cup pod technology. Of these, a majority are utility patents and the remainder are design patents. We view these patents as valuable assets but we do not view any single patent as critical to our success. We also have pending patent applications associated with Keurig brewing systems and K-Cup pod technology. We take steps that we believe are appropriate to protect such innovation. OUR RAW MATERIALS The principal raw materials we use in our business, which we commonly refer to as ingredients and packaging, are green coffee, PET bottles and caps, aluminum cans and ends, sweeteners, paper products, K-Cup pod packaging materials, fruit, glass bottles and enclosures, juices, teas, water, and other ingredients. We also use post-consumer recycled materials in the manufacturing of our single serve brewing systems. These ingredients and packaging costs can fluctuate substantially and comprise approximately 59% of our cost of sales. When appropriate, we mitigate the exposure to volatility in the prices of certain commodities used in our production process and transportation to our customers through the use of various commodity derivative contracts or supplier pricing agreements. The intent of the contracts and agreements is to provide a certain level of predictability in our operating margins and our overall cost structure, while remaining in what we believe to be a competitive cost position. Ingredients and materials, excluding green coffee. Under many of our supply arrangements for these raw materials, the price we pay fluctuates along with certain changes in underlying commodities costs, such as aluminum in the case of cans and ends, natural gas in the case of glass bottles, resin in the case of pods, PET bottles and caps, corn in the case of sweeteners and pulp in the case of paperboard packaging. Green coffee. We purchase green coffee through outside brokers. We develop and also pursue direct relationships with farms, estates, cooperatives, and cooperative groups in order to support our broader traceability and sustainable supply chain initiatives. In 2019, 65% of our purchases of green coffee were responsibly sourced through third party sourcing programs, which include a corresponding premium to the base commodity price. We are committed to achieving 100% responsible sourcing by the end of 2020. In addition, 97% of our green coffee purchases were traceable back to the exporter mill, group or farm. We believe that traceability helps us manage social and environmental risk, secure long-term supplies of high-quality coffee and identify opportunities for supply chain investments. Energy costs. In addition to ingredients and packaging costs, we are significantly impacted by changes in fuel costs, which can also fluctuate substantially, due to the large truck fleet we operate in our distribution businesses and the energy costs consumed in the production process. The fuels costs associated with our distribution businesses are reflected within our SG&A expenses. 6 SEASONALITY The beverage market is subject to some seasonal variations. Our cold beverage sales are generally higher during the warmer months, while hot beverage sales are generally higher during the cooler months. Overall beverage sales can also be influenced by the timing of holidays and weather fluctuations. Sales of brewing systems and related accessories are generally higher during the second half of the year due to the holiday shopping season. ENVIRONMENTAL, HEALTH AND SAFETY MATTERS In the normal course of our business, we are subject to a variety of federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. We maintain environmental, health and safety policies and a quality, environmental, health and safety program designed to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The cost of such compliance measures does not have a material financial impact on our operations. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY In all we do, we are committed to acting responsibly, and our ambition is to ensure our beverages make a positive impact with every drink. Drink Well. Do Good. is our corporate responsibility platform. Under this platform, we focus on our greatest opportunities for impact in our supply chain, the environment and our communities. As part of our commitment to transparency and information sharing in these initiatives, please refer to our Corporate Responsibility Report, available on our website at www.keurigdrpepper.com. Select highlights from the report are discussed below. Sustainable Packaging Sustainable packaging is a top priority for us and we continue to innovate for circular solutions across our portfolio. We've set a goal to make 100% of our packaging recyclable or compostable by 2025. We also want to further contribute to the circular economy with our commitment to use 30% recycled material across our packaging portfolio by 2025. Already, the majority of our bottles are recyclable and we are ensuring that our packaging materials are optimally designed to be the highest value possible for recycled plastic buyers, which will increasingly include us. To reduce contamination in the recycling stream, we are replacing dark-colored plastics with clear, making our bottles, labels and caps compatible with widely-used bottle recycling processes, and supporting consumer education campaigns on how to "recycle right". We have also partnered with the American Beverage Association and other beverage industry leaders on the Every Bottle Back initiative, a breakthrough effort to reduce our industry’s use of new plastic and increase the recycling and reuse of our plastic bottles. The initiative includes a $100 million industry-backed fund to invest in improved sorting, processing and collection efforts that would increase the quality and availability of recycled plastic across the country. We are on track to make all K-Cup pod s sold in the U.S. recyclable by the end of 2020, having converted all K-Cup pod s sold in Canada to a recyclable format in 2018. The new pods are made of polypropylene #5 plastic, a material that is accepted curbside for recycling by many communities, and we have conducted extensive testing with municipal recycling facilities to validate that they can be effectively recycled. Improving packaging solutions for product quality, consumer use, recoverability and reuse requires collaboration of all parties along the value chain. Using our strength in forming partnerships, we collaborate closely with a number of stakeholders, including industry groups, NGO s and investment firms, to move our commitments beyond independent ambitions to collective action. Health and Well-Being We are committed to providing a balanced portfolio of beverage options and the resources consumers need to make informed choices for themselves and their families. In addition to our low calorie and portion control options for our full calorie beverages we also have a robust portfolio of zero, low and mid calorie beverage brands. We promote healthy lifestyles through our Let's Play initiative, which provides funding, equipment and play spaces for kids and families to make active play a daily priority. Through Let’s Play, we partner with national nonprofit organizations to build and improve playgrounds in underserved communities and provide grants for sports equipment. We also partner with our industry peers to promote balance through the Balance Calories Initiative and through our "Think Balance" messaging, which encourages consumers to balance what they drink with what they do. 7 REGULATORY MATTERS We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations in the countries in which we do business. Regulations apply to many aspects of our business, including our products and their ingredients, manufacturing, safety, labeling, transportation, recycling, advertising and sale. For example, our products and their manufacturing, labeling, marketing and sale in the U.S. are subject to various aspects of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the Federal Trade Commission Act, the Lanham Act, state consumer protection laws and state warning and labeling laws. Certain cities and municipalities within the U.S. have also passed various taxes on the distribution of sugar-sweetened and diet beverages, which are at different stages of enactment. In Canada and Mexico, the manufacture, distribution, marketing and sale of many of our products are also subject to similar statutes and regulations. Various states and other authorities require deposits, eco-taxes or fees on certain containers. Similar legislation or regulations may be proposed in the future at local, state and federal levels, both in the U.S. and elsewhere. In Mexico, the government has encouraged the soft drink industry to comply voluntarily with collection and recycling programs for plastic materials, and we are in compliance with these programs. AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our website address is www.keurigdrpepper.com. Information on our website is not incorporated by reference in this document. We make available, free of charge through this website, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed, or furnished to, the SEC. MARKET AND INDUSTRY DATA The market and industry data in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is from IRi, an independent industry source, and is based on retail dollar sales and sales volumes in 2019. Although we believe that this independent source is reliable, we have not verified the accuracy or completeness of this data or any assumptions underlying such data. IRi is a marketing information provider, primarily serving consumer packaged goods manufacturers and retailers. We use IRi data as our primary management tool to track market performance because it has broad and deep data coverage, is based on consumer transactions at retailers, and is reported to us monthly. IRi data provides measurement and analysis of marketplace trends such as market share, retail pricing, promotional activity and distribution across various channels, retailers and geographies. Measured categories provided to us by IRi include K-Cup pod s, CSDs, including energy drinks and carbonated waters, and NCBs, including ready-to-drink teas and coffee, single-serve and multi-serve juice and juice drinks, sports drinks, still waters and non-alcoholic mixers. IRi also provides data on other food items such as apple sauce. IRi data we present in this report is from IRi service, which compiles data based on scanner transactions in key retail channels, including grocery stores, mass merchandisers (including Walmart), club stores (excluding Costco), drug chains, convenience stores and gas stations. However, this data does not include the fountain or vending channels, or small independent retail outlets, which together represent a meaningful portion of the U.S. beverage market. This data does not include certain customers and e-commerce sales which represents a significant portion of our Coffee Systems segment. Our market share data for our brewers is based on information provided by NPD. NPD data is based upon Consumer Panel Track SM (consumer-reported sales) calibrated with selected retailers' point of sale data, based on NPD 's definition of the coffeemaker category. The data presented is based upon The NPD /Consumer Tracking Service for Coffeemakers in the U.S. and represents the twelve month period ended December 31, 2019. 8 ITEM 1A.