 PART I Item 1. Business. General For 150 years, we have produced some of the world’s most beloved products at The Kraft Heinz Company (Nasdaq: KHC). Our Vision is To Be the Best Food Company, Growing a Better World. We are one of the largest global food and beverage companies, with 2019 net sales of approximately $25 billion. Our portfolio is a diverse mix of iconic and emerging brands. As the guardians of these brands and the creators of innovative new products, we are dedicated to the sustainable health of our people and our planet. On July 2, 2015, through a series of transactions, we consummated the merger of Kraft Foods Group, Inc. (“Kraft”) with and into a wholly-owned subsidiary of H.J. Heinz Holding Corporation (“Heinz”) (the “2015 Merger”). At the closing of the 2015 Merger, Heinz was renamed The Kraft Heinz Company, and H. J. Heinz Company changed its name to Kraft Heinz Foods Company. Before the consummation of the 2015 Merger, Heinz was controlled by Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (“Berkshire Hathaway”) and 3G Global Food Holdings, L.P. (“3G Capital”) (together, the “Sponsors”), following their acquisition of H. J. Heinz Company on June 7, 2013. Reportable Segments We manage and report our operating results through four segments. We have three reportable segments defined by geographic region: United States, Canada, and Europe, Middle East, and Africa (“EMEA”). Our remaining businesses are combined and disclosed as “Rest of World.” Rest of World comprises two operating segments: Latin America and Asia Pacific (“APAC”). During the third quarter of 2019, certain organizational changes were announced that will impact our future internal reporting and reportable segments. As a result of these changes, we plan to combine our EMEA, Latin America, and APAC zones to form the International zone. The International zone will be a reportable segment along with the United States and Canada in 2020. We also plan to move our Puerto Rico business from the Latin America zone to the United States zone to consolidate and streamline the management of our product categories and supply chain. These changes will be effective in the first quarter of 2020. See Note 22, Segment Reporting, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for our geographic financial information by segment. Trademarks and Intellectual Property Our trademarks are material to our business and are among our most valuable assets. Depending on the country, trademarks generally remain valid for as long as they are in use or their registration status is maintained. Trademark registrations generally are for renewable, fixed terms. Significant trademarks by segment based on net sales in 2019 were: Majority Owned and Licensed Trademarks United States Kraft, Oscar Mayer, Heinz, Philadelphia, Lunchables, Velveeta, Planters, Maxwell House, Capri Sun*, Kool-Aid, Ore-Ida, Jell-O Canada Kraft, Heinz, Philadelphia, Maxwell House, Classico, McCafe*, Tassimo* EMEA Heinz, Plasmon, Pudliszki, Honig, HP, Benedicta, Kraft, Karvan Cevitam Rest of World Heinz, ABC, Master, Kraft, Quero, Golden Circle, Wattie's *Used under license. Additionally, our license to use the McCafe brand expired in Canada in December 2019. We sell certain products under brands we license from third parties. In 2019, brands used under licenses from third parties included Capri Sun packaged drink pouches for sale in the United States, TGI Fridays frozen snacks and appetizers in the United States and Canada, McCafe ground, whole bean, and on-demand single cup coffees in the United States and Canada, and Taco Bell Home Originals Mexican-style food products in U.S. grocery stores. In addition, in our agreements with Mondelēz International, Inc. (“Mondelēz International”) following the spin-off of Kraft from Mondelēz International in 2012, we each granted the other party various licenses to use certain of our and their respective intellectual property rights in named jurisdictions for certain periods of time. We also own numerous patents worldwide. We consider our portfolio of patents, patent applications, patent licenses under patents owned by third parties, proprietary trade secrets, technology, know-how processes, and related intellectual property rights to be material to our operations. Patents, issued or applied for, cover inventions ranging from packaging techniques to processes relating to specific products and to the products themselves. While our patent portfolio is material to our business, the loss of one patent or a group of related patents would not have a material adverse effect on our business. 1 Our issued patents extend for varying periods according to the date of the patent application filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. The actual protection afforded by a patent, which can vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage as determined by the patent office or courts in the country, and the availability of legal remedies in the country. Research and Development Our research and development focuses on achieving the following four objectives: • product innovations, renovations, and new technologies to meet changing consumer needs and drive growth; • world-class and uncompromising food safety, quality, and consistency; • superior, customer-preferred product and package performance; and • continuous process improvement and product optimization in pursuit of cost reductions. Competition Our products are sold in highly competitive marketplaces, which have experienced increased concentration and the growing presence of e-commerce retailers, large-format retailers, and discounters. Competitors include large national and international food and beverage companies and numerous local and regional companies. We compete with both branded and private label products sold by retailers, wholesalers, and cooperatives. We compete on the basis of product innovation, price, product quality, nutritional value, service, taste, convenience, brand recognition and loyalty, effectiveness of marketing and distribution, promotional activity, and the ability to identify and satisfy changing consumer preferences. Improving our market position or introducing new products requires substantial advertising and promotional expenditures. Sales and Customers Our products are sold through our own sales organizations and through independent brokers, agents, and distributors to chain, wholesale, cooperative and independent grocery accounts, convenience stores, drug stores, value stores, bakeries, pharmacies, mass merchants, club stores, foodservice distributors, and institutions, including hotels, restaurants, hospitals, health care facilities, and certain government agencies. Our products are also sold online through various e-commerce platforms and retailers. Our largest customer, Walmart Inc., represented approximately 21% of our net sales in 2019, 2018, and 2017. Additionally, we have significant customers in different regions around the world; however, none of these customers are individually material to our consolidated business. In 2019, the five largest customers in our U.S. segment accounted for approximately 48% of U.S. segment net sales, the five largest customers in our Canada segment accounted for approximately 73% of Canada segment net sales, and the five largest customers in our EMEA segment accounted for approximately 26% of our EMEA segment net sales. Net Sales by Product Category The product categories that contributed 10% or more to consolidated net sales in any of the periods presented were: 2 Raw Materials and Packaging We manufacture (and contract for the manufacture of) our products from a wide variety of raw materials. We purchase and use large quantities of commodities, including dairy products, meat products, coffee beans, nuts, tomatoes, potatoes, soybean and vegetable oils, sugar and other sweeteners, corn products, and wheat products, to manufacture our products. In addition, we purchase and use significant quantities of resins, metals, and cardboard to package our products and natural gas to operate our facilities. For commodities that we use across many of our product categories, such as corrugated paper and energy, we coordinate sourcing requirements and centralize procurement to leverage our scale. In addition, some of our product lines and brands separately source raw materials that are specific to their operations. We source these commodities from a variety of providers, including large, international producers and smaller, local, independent sellers. Where appropriate, we seek to establish preferred purchaser status and have developed strategic partnerships with many of our suppliers with the objective of achieving favorable pricing and dependable supply for many of our commodities. The prices of raw materials that we use in our products are affected by external factors, such as global competition for resources, currency fluctuations, severe weather or global climate change, consumer, industrial or investment demand, and changes in governmental regulation and trade, tariffs, alternative energy, and agricultural programs. Our procurement teams monitor worldwide supply and cost trends so we can obtain ingredients and packaging needed for production at competitive prices. Although the prices of our principal raw materials can be expected to fluctuate, we believe there will be an adequate supply of the raw materials we use and that they are generally available from numerous sources. We use a range of hedging techniques in an effort to limit the impact of price fluctuations on many of our principal raw materials. However, we do not fully hedge against changes in commodity prices, and our hedging strategies may not protect us from increases in specific raw material costs. We actively monitor changes to commodity costs so that we can seek to mitigate the effect through pricing and other operational measures. Seasonality and Working Capital Although crops constituting certain of our raw food ingredients are harvested on a seasonal basis, the majority of our products are produced throughout the year. Seasonal factors inherent in our business change the demand for products, including holidays, changes in seasons, or other annual events. While these factors influence our quarterly net sales, operating income/(loss), and cash flows at the product level, unless the timing of such events shift period-over-period (e.g., a shift in Easter timing), this seasonality does not typically have a significant effect on our consolidated results of operations or segment results. For information related to our cash flows provided by/(used for) operating activities, including working capital items, see Liquidity and Capital Resources in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, of this report. Employees We had approximately 37,000 employees as of December 28, 2019. Regulation The manufacture and sale of consumer food and beverage products is highly regulated. Our business operations, including the production, transportation, storage, distribution, sale, display, advertising, marketing, labeling, quality and safety of our products and their ingredients, and our occupational safety, health, and privacy practices, are subject to various laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are administered by federal, state, and local government agencies in the United States, as well as government entities and agencies outside the United States in markets where our products are manufactured, distributed or sold. In the United States, our activities are subject to regulation by various federal government agencies, including the Food and Drug Administration, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Federal Trade Commission, Department of Labor, Department of Commerce, and Environmental Protection Agency, as well as various state and local agencies. We are also subject to numerous similar and other laws and regulations outside of the United States, including but not limited to laws and regulations governing food safety, health and safety, anti-corruption, and data privacy. In our business dealings, we are also required to comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), the U.K. Bribery Act, the Trade Sanctions Reform and Export Enhancement Act, and various other anti-corruption regulations in the regions in which we operate. We rely on legal and operational compliance programs, as well as in-house and outside counsel, to guide our businesses in complying with applicable laws and regulations of the countries in which we do business. In addition, the United Kingdom's withdrawal from the European Union (commonly referred to as “Brexit”) and other regulatory regime changes may add cost and complexity to our compliance efforts. 3 Environmental Regulation Our activities throughout the world are highly regulated and subject to government oversight regarding environmental matters. Various laws concerning the handling, storage, and disposal of hazardous materials and the operation of facilities in environmentally sensitive locations may impact aspects of our operations. In the United States, where a significant portion of our business operates, these laws and regulations include the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (“CERCLA”). CERCLA imposes joint and several liability on each potentially responsible party. We are involved in a number of active proceedings in the United States under CERCLA (and other similar state actions under similar legislation) related to our current operations and certain closed, inactive, or divested operations for which we retain liability. As of December 28, 2019, we had accrued an amount we deemed appropriate for environmental remediation. Based on information currently available, we believe that the ultimate resolution of existing environmental remediation actions and our compliance in general with environmental laws and regulations will not have a material effect on our earnings or financial condition. However, it is difficult to predict with certainty the potential impact of future compliance efforts and environmental remedial actions and thus, future costs associated with such matters may exceed current reserves. Information about our Executive Officers The following are our executive officers as of February 8, 2020: Name Age Title Miguel Patricio 53 Chief Executive Officer Paulo Basilio 45 Global Chief Financial Officer Carlos Abrams-Rivera 52 U.S. Zone President Nina Barton 46 Chief Growth Officer Bruno Keller 38 Zone President Canada Rashida La Lande 46 Senior Vice President, Global General Counsel and Head of CSR and Government Affairs; Corporate Secretary Rafael Oliveira 45 Zone President International Flavio Torres 50 Head of Global Operations Miguel Patricio became Chief Executive Officer in June 2019. Mr. Patricio had previously served as Chief of Special Global Projects-Marketing at Anheuser-Busch Inbev SA/NV (“AB InBev”), a multinational drink and brewing holdings company, from January 2019 to June 2019. Prior to that, he served as the Chief Marketing Officer at AB InBev since 2012. Prior to his role as Chief Marketing Officer, since joining AB InBev in 1998, he also served as Zone President Asia Pacific, Zone President North America, Vice President Marketing of North America, and Vice President Marketing. Mr. Patricio has also held several senior positions across the Americas at The Coca-Cola Company and Johnson & Johnson. Mr. Patricio also invests in the 3G Special Situation Fund III (the “Fund”); his investment represents less than 1% of the Fund’s assets. Paulo Basilio became Global Chief Financial Officer in September 2019. Prior to that role, Mr. Basilio served as Chief Business Planning and Development Officer from July 2019 to September 2019 and served as President of the U.S. Commercial Business from October 2017 to June 2019. Mr. Basilio previously served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer upon the closing of the 2015 Merger until October 2017. He had previously served as Chief Financial Officer of Heinz since June 2013. Previously, Mr. Basilio served as Chief Executive Officer of América Latina Logística (“ALL”), a logistics company, from September 2010 to June 2012, after having served in various roles at ALL, including Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Basilio has also been a partner of 3G Capital since July 2012. Carlos Abrams-Rivera joined Kraft Heinz as U.S. Zone President on February 3, 2020. Prior to joining Kraft Heinz, Mr. Abrams-Rivera served as Executive Vice President and President, Campbell Snacks of Campbell Soup Company (“Campbell”), a multinational food company, since May 2019. Prior to that role, Mr. Abrams-Rivera served as President, Campbell Snacks from 2018 to May 2019 and President of Campbell’s Pepperidge Farm subsidiary from 2015 to 2018. Prior to joining Campbell, Mr. Abrams-Rivera held various leadership roles at Mondelēz International and Kraft Foods. 4 Nina Barton became Chief Growth Officer in September 2019. Prior to assuming her current role, Ms. Barton served as Zone President of Canada and President of Digital Growth from January 2019 to August 2019. Prior to that role, Ms. Barton served as President, Global Digital and Online Growth since October 2017, and from July 2015 through October 2017, she served as Senior Vice President of Marketing, Innovation and Research & Development for the U.S. business. From July 2013 through July 2015, she served as Vice President, Marketing at Kraft Foods Group, Inc. and managed the total coffee portfolio including the Maxwell House, Gevalia, and McCafe brands. Ms. Barton joined Kraft Foods in 2011 as Senior Marketing Director responsible for growing the Philadelphia cream cheese brand. Prior to that, Ms. Barton served in a variety of marketing and brand-building roles in the consumer products industry. Bruno Keller assumed his current role as Zone President of Canada in September 2019. Previously, Mr. Keller had served as Head of Category Development for Canada since June 2018. From April 2017 to June 2018, he served as Managing Director for South Europe, and from June 2015 to April 2017, he served as Managing Director of Italy. Mr. Keller joined Kraft Heinz in 2014 as Director of Trade Marketing and Revenue Management in Italy. Prior to joining Kraft Heinz, Mr. Keller held management roles at AB InBev, Philip Morris, Pepsico, and Unilever. Rashida La Lande joined Kraft Heinz as Senior Vice President, Global General Counsel and Corporate Secretary in January 2018. In October 2018, Ms. La Lande’s responsibilities expanded to include leadership of our corporate social responsibility and government affairs functions, and she was later appointed Head of Corporate Social Responsibility and Government Affairs in addition to her role as Senior Vice President, Global General Counsel and Corporate Secretary. Prior to joining Kraft Heinz, Ms. La Lande was a partner at the law firm of Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher, where she practiced from October 2000 to January 2018, and where she advised clients with respect to mergers and acquisitions, leveraged buyouts, private equity deals, and joint ventures. Throughout Ms. La Lande’s career, she has advised companies and private equity sponsors in the consumer products, retail, financial services, and technology industries. Rafael Oliveira assumed his current role as Zone President International in July 2019. Prior to that role, he served as Zone President of EMEA from October 2016 to June 2019 after serving as the Managing Director of Kraft Heinz UK & Ireland. Mr. Oliveira joined Kraft Heinz in July 2014 and served as President of Kraft Heinz Australia, New Zealand, and Papua New Guinea until September 2016. Prior to joining Kraft Heinz, Mr. Oliveira spent 17 years in the financial industry, the final 10 of which he held a variety of leadership positions with Goldman Sachs. Flavio Torres joined Kraft Heinz as Head of Global Operations in January 2020. Prior to joining Kraft Heinz, Mr. Torres served as Global Operations VP of AB InBev, a multinational drink and brewing holdings company, from 2017 to 2019. Prior to that role, Mr. Torres served as Supply Chain VP at Ambev S.A., a subsidiary of AB InBev, from 2014 to 2016. Mr. Torres joined AB InBev in 1994 and served in positions of increasing responsibility during his tenure. Available Information Our website address is www.kraftheinzcompany.com. The information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or incorporated into any other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (the “Exchange Act”) are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the SEC. In addition, the SEC maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including Kraft Heinz, that are electronically filed with the SEC. Item 1A.