 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Overview Description of the Company: We manufacture and market food and beverage products, including condiments and sauces, cheese and dairy, meals, meats, refreshment beverages, coffee, and other grocery products throughout the world. We manage and report our operating results through four segments. We have three reportable segments defined by geographic region: United States, Canada, and EMEA. Our remaining businesses are combined and disclosed as “Rest of World.” Rest of World comprises two operating segments: Latin America and APAC. During the third quarter of 2019, certain organizational changes were announced that will impact our future internal reporting and reportable segments. As a result of these changes, we plan to combine our EMEA, Latin America, and APAC zones to form the International zone. The International zone will be a reportable segment along with the United States and Canada in 2020. We also plan to move our Puerto Rico business from the Latin America zone to the United States zone to consolidate and streamline the management of our product categories and supply chain. These changes will be effective in the first quarter of 2020. See Note 22, Segment Reporting, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, to the consolidated financial statements for our financial information by segment. See below for discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations for 2019 compared to 2018. See Item 7, Management’s Discussions and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 29, 2018 for a detailed discussion of our financial condition and results of operations for 2018 compared to 2017. Items Affecting Comparability of Financial Results Impairment Losses: Our 2019 results of operations reflect goodwill impairment losses of $1.2 billion and intangible asset impairment losses of $702 million compared to goodwill impairment losses of $7.0 billion and intangible asset impairment losses of $8.9 billion in 2018. See Note 9, Goodwill and Intangible Assets, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information on these impairment losses. Results of Operations We disclose in this report certain non-GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures assist management in comparing our performance on a consistent basis for purposes of business decision-making by removing the impact of certain items that management believes do not directly reflect our underlying operations. For additional information and reconciliations from our consolidated financial statements see Non-GAAP Financial Measures. Consolidated Results of Operations Summary of Results: 22 Net Sales: (a) Organic Net Sales is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section at the end of this item. Fiscal Year 2019 Compared to Fiscal Year 2018: Net sales decreased 4.9% to $25.0 billion in 2019 compared to $26.3 billion in 2018 primarily due to the unfavorable impacts of foreign currency ( 1.9 pp ) and acquisitions and divestitures ( 1.3 pp ). Organic Net Sales decreased 1.7% to $25.0 billion in 2019 compared to $25.4 billion in 2018 due to unfavorable volume/mix ( 1.8 pp ), partially offset by higher pricing ( 0.1 pp ). Volume/mix was unfavorable in the United States, Rest of World, and EMEA, which was partially offset by growth in Canada. Higher pricing in the United States and Rest of World was partially offset by lower pricing in Canada, while pricing in EMEA was flat. Net Income/(Loss): (a) Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section at the end of this item. Fiscal Year 2019 Compared to Fiscal Year 2018: Operating income/(loss) increased 130.1% to income of $3.1 billion in 2019 compared to a loss of $10.2 billion in 2018. This increase was primarily driven by lower impairment losses in the current year. Impairment losses were $1.9 billion in 2019 compared to $15.9 billion in 2018. Excluding the impact of these impairment losses, operating income/(loss) decreased by $762 million primarily due to lower Organic Net Sales, higher supply chain costs, the unfavorable impact of foreign currency (0.8 pp), higher general corporate expenses, and the unfavorable impact of divestitures, partially offset by lower restructuring expenses in the current period. See Note 9, Goodwill and Intangible Assets, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information on our impairment losses. Net income/(loss) attributable to common shareholders increased 119.0% to income of $1.9 billion in 2019 compared to a loss of $10.2 billion in 2018. This change was driven by the operating income/(loss) factors described above (primarily lower impairment losses in 2019 compared to 2018) and favorable impacts in other expense/(income), partially offset by a higher effective tax rate and higher interest expense, detailed as follows. • Other expense/(income) was $952 million of income in 2019 compared to $168 million of income in 2018. This increase was primarily driven by a $420 million net gain on sales of businesses in 2019 compared to a $15 million loss on sale of our South Africa subsidiary in 2018, a $162 million non-cash settlement charge in the prior year related to the wind-up of our Canadian salaried and Canadian hourly defined benefit pension plans, and a $136 million decrease in nonmonetary currency devaluation losses related to our Venezuelan operations as compared to the prior year period. The $420 million net gain on sales of businesses in 2019 consisted of a $249 million gain on the sale of Heinz India Private Limited (“Heinz India”) (“Heinz India Transaction”), a $242 million gain on the sale of certain assets in our natural cheese business in Canada (“Canada Natural Cheese Transaction”), and a $71 million loss on an anticipated sale of a subsidiary within our Rest of World segment. • The effective tax rate was 27.4% in 2019 on pre-tax income compared to 9.4% in 2018 on a pre-tax loss. The 2019 effective tax rate was higher primarily driven by lower non-deductible goodwill impairments, partially offset by a more favorable geographic mix of pre-tax income in various non-U.S. jurisdictions and a decrease in unfavorable rate reconciling items. Current year unfavorable impacts primarily related to non-deductible goodwill impairments, the impact of the federal tax on global intangible low-taxed income (“GILTI”), an increase in uncertain tax position reserves, the establishment of certain state valuation allowance reserves, and the tax impacts from the Heinz India and Canada Natural Cheese Transactions. These impacts were partially offset by the reversal of certain withholding tax obligations and changes in estimates of certain 2018 U.S. income and deductions. 23 • Interest expense was $1.4 billion in 2019 compared to $1.3 billion in 2018. This increase was primarily driven by a $98 million loss on extinguishment of debt recognized in connection with our debt tender offers and redemptions completed in 2019. Excluding the impact of the loss on extinguishment of debt, interest expense was generally flat as compared to the prior year period. Adjusted EBITDA decreased 13.7% to $6.1 billion in 2019 compared to $7.0 billion in 2018. This decrease was primarily due to lower Organic Net Sales, higher supply chain costs, the unfavorable impact of foreign currency ( 2.8 pp ), higher general corporate expenses, and the unfavorable impact of divestitures. Diluted EPS: (a) Adjusted EPS is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section at the end of this item. Fiscal Year 2019 Compared to Fiscal Year 2018: Diluted EPS increased 118.9% to earnings of $1.58 in 2019 compared to a loss of $8.36 in 2018 primarily driven by the net income/(loss) attributable to common shareholders factors discussed above. (a) Adjusted EPS is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section at the end of this item. Adjusted EPS decreased 18.8% to $2.85 in 2019 compared to $3.51 in 2018 primarily due to lower Adjusted EBITDA and higher depreciation and amortization expenses, partially offset by favorable changes in other expense/(income) and lower interest expense. 24 Results of Operations by Segment Management evaluates segment performance based on several factors, including net sales, Organic Net Sales, and Segment Adjusted EBITDA. Segment Adjusted EBITDA is defined as net income/(loss) from continuing operations before interest expense, other expense/(income), provision for/(benefit from) income taxes, and depreciation and amortization (excluding integration and restructuring expenses); in addition to these adjustments, we exclude, when they occur, the impacts of integration and restructuring expenses, deal costs, unrealized gains/(losses) on commodity hedges (the unrealized gains and losses are recorded in general corporate expenses until realized; once realized, the gains and losses are recorded in the applicable segment’s operating results), impairment losses, and equity award compensation expense (excluding integration and restructuring expenses). Segment Adjusted EBITDA is a tool that can assist management and investors in comparing our performance on a consistent basis by removing the impact of certain items that management believes do not directly reflect our underlying operations. Under highly inflationary accounting, the financial statements of a subsidiary are remeasured into our reporting currency (U.S. dollars) based on the legally available exchange rate at which we expect to settle the underlying transactions. Exchange gains and losses from the remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities are reflected in net income/(loss), rather than accumulated other comprehensive income/(losses) on the balance sheet, until such time as the economy is no longer considered highly inflationary. The exchange gains and losses from remeasurement are recorded in current net income/(loss) and are classified within other expense/(income), as nonmonetary currency devaluation. See Note 15, Venezuela - Foreign Currency and Inflation, and Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information. Net Sales: Organic Net Sales: (a) Organic Net Sales is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section at the end of this item. Drivers of the changes in net sales and Organic Net Sales were: 25 Adjusted EBITDA: United States: (a) Organic Net Sales is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section at the end of this item. Fiscal Year 2019 Compared to Fiscal Year 2018: Net sales and Organic Net Sales both decreased 2.0% to $17.8 billion in 2019 compared to $18.1 billion in 2018. This decrease was primarily due to unfavorable volume/mix ( 2.4 pp ), partially offset by higher pricing ( 0.4 pp ). Unfavorable volume/mix was primarily due to unfavorable changes in retail inventory levels versus the prior year and lower shipments in meat, cheese, and coffee, partially offset by growth in nuts as well as condiments and sauces. Higher pricing was primarily driven by price increases to reflect higher key-commodity costs for meat and cheese, which more than offset lower key-commodity driven pricing on coffee and nuts. Segment Adjusted EBITDA decreased 7.8% to $4.8 billion in 2019 compared to $5.2 billion in 2018. This decrease was primarily due to lower Organic Net Sales, cost inflation in procurement and manufacturing, strategic investments, and supply chain losses. Canada: (a) Organic Net Sales is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section at the end of this item. 26 Fiscal Year 2019 Compared to Fiscal Year 2018: Net sales decreased 13.4% to $1.9 billion in 2019 compared to $2.2 billion in 2018 primarily due to the unfavorable impacts of acquisitions and divestitures ( 9.4 pp ) and foreign currency ( 2.1 pp ). Organic Net Sales decreased 1.9% to $1.7 billion in 2019 compared to $1.7 billion in 2018 due to lower pricing ( 3.4 pp ), partially offset by favorable volume/mix ( 1.5 pp ). Pricing was lower across categories, primarily due to higher promotional costs versus the prior year, particularly in condiments and sauces and cheese. Favorable volume/mix was primarily driven by growth in condiments and sauces, spreads, and cheese. Segment Adjusted EBITDA decreased 19.9% to $487 million in 2019 compared to $608 million in 2018 partially due to the unfavorable impact of foreign currency ( 1.9 pp ). Excluding the currency impact, Segment Adjusted EBITDA decreased primarily due to lower Organic Net Sales, the Canada Natural Cheese Transaction which closed on July 2, 2019, and higher input costs. EMEA : (a) Organic Net Sales is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section at the end of this item. Fiscal Year 2019 Compared to Fiscal Year 2018: Net sales decreased 6.2% to $2.6 billion in 2019 compared to $2.7 billion in 2018 driven by the unfavorable impacts of foreign currency ( 4.3 pp ) and acquisitions and divestitures ( 0.7 pp ). Organic Net Sales decreased 1.2% to $2.7 billion in 2019 compared to $2.7 billion in 2018 due to unfavorable volume/mix ( 1.2 pp ) while pricing was flat versus 2018. Unfavorable volume/mix was primarily due to the adverse impact of extended negotiations with key retailers, lower shipments of meals, and ongoing weakness in infant nutrition, partially offset by foodservice growth. P ricing was flat primarily due to lower pricing in infant nutrition, partially offset by price increases in meals. Segment Adjusted EBITDA decreased 8.7% to $661 million in 2019 compared to $724 million in 2018, including the unfavorable impact of foreign currency ( 4.2 pp ). Excluding the currency impact, the decrease was primarily due to higher supply chain costs in the current year and the benefit from the postemployment benefits accounting change in the prior year. Rest of World: (a) Organic Net Sales is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section at the end of this item. Fiscal Year 2019 Compared to Fiscal Year 2018: Net sales decreased 14.3% to $2.8 billion in 2019 compared to $3.3 billion in 2018 due to the unfavorable impact of foreign currency ( 10.3 pp, including 6.9 pp from the devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar) and the unfavorable impact of acquisitions and divestitures ( 3.9 pp ). Organic Net Sales decreased 0.1% to $2.8 billion in 2019 compared to $2.8 billion in 2018 primarily due to unfavorable volume/mix ( 1.3 pp ), partially offset by higher pricing ( 1.2 pp ). Unfavorable volume/mix was due to ongoing weakness in infant nutrition, partially offset by growth in condiments and sauces. Higher pricing was primarily driven by price increases in Brazil and Mexico. Segment Adjusted EBITDA decreased 42.8% to $363 million in 2019 compared to $635 million in 2018, including the unfavorable impact of foreign currency ( 22.6 pp, including 20.8 pp from the devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar) and costs not expected to repeat, from a combination of higher labor-related expenses from the impact of the Holidays Act in New Zealand, as well as asset- and inventory-related write-offs in Australia, New Zealand, and Latin America. Excluding these factors, the decrease in Segment Adjusted EBITDA was primarily due to higher supply chain costs and the Heinz India Transaction which closed on January 30, 2019. 27 Critical Accounting Estimates Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, includes a summary of the significant accounting policies we used to prepare our consolidated financial statements. The following is a review of the more significant assumptions and estimates as well as accounting policies we used to prepare our consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition: Our revenues are primarily derived from customer orders for the purchase of our products. We recognize revenues as performance obligations are fulfilled when control passes to our customers. We record revenues net of variable consideration, including consumer incentives and performance obligations related to trade promotions, excluding taxes, and including all shipping and handling charges billed to customers (accounting for shipping and handling charges that occur after the transfer of control as fulfillment costs). We also record a refund liability for estimated product returns and customer allowances as reductions to revenues within the same period that the revenue is recognized. We base these estimates principally on historical and current period experience factors. We recognize costs paid to third party brokers to obtain contracts as expenses as our contracts are generally less than one year. Advertising, Consumer Incentives, and Trade Promotions: We promote our products with advertising, consumer incentives, and performance obligations related to trade promotions. Consumer incentives and trade promotions include, but are not limited to, discounts, coupons, rebates, performance-based in-store display activities, and volume-based incentives. Variable consideration related to consumer incentive and trade promotion activities is recorded as a reduction to revenues based on amounts estimated as being due to customers and consumers at the end of a period. We base these estimates principally on historical utilization, redemption rates, and/or current period experience factors. We review and adjust these estimates at least quarterly based on actual experience and other information. Advertising expenses are recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses (“SG&A”). For interim reporting purposes, we charge advertising to operations as a percentage of estimated full year sales activity and marketing costs. We then review and adjust these estimates each quarter based on actual experience and other information. We recorded advertising expenses of $534 million in 2019, $584 million in 2018, and $629 million in 2017, which represented costs to obtain physical advertisement spots in television, radio, print, digital, and social channels. We also incur other advertising and marketing costs such as shopper marketing, sponsorships, and agency advertisement conception, design, and public relations fees. Total advertising and marketing costs were $1.1 billion in 2019, 2018, and 2017. Goodwill and Intangible Assets: We maintain 19 reporting units, 11 of which comprise our goodwill balance. These 11 reporting units had an aggregate carrying amount of $35.5 billion as of December 28, 2019. Our indefinite-lived intangible asset balance primarily consists of a number of individual brands, which had an aggregate carrying amount of $43.4 billion as of December 28, 2019. We test our reporting units and brands for impairment annually as of the first day of our second quarter, or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit or brand is less than its carrying amount. Such events and circumstances could include a sustained decrease in our market capitalization, increased competition or unexpected loss of market share, increased input costs beyond projections (for example due to regulatory or industry changes), disposals of significant brands or components of our business, unexpected business disruptions (for example due to a natural disaster or loss of a customer, supplier, or other significant business relationship), unexpected significant declines in operating results, significant adverse changes in the markets in which we operate, or changes in management strategy. We test reporting units for impairment by comparing the estimated fair value of each reporting unit with its carrying amount. We test brands for impairment by comparing the estimated fair value of each brand with its carrying amount. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit or brand exceeds its estimated fair value, we record an impairment loss based on the difference between fair value and carrying amount, in the case of reporting units, not to exceed the associated carrying amount of goodwill. 28 Fair value determinations require considerable judgment and are sensitive to changes in underlying assumptions, estimates, and market factors. Estimating the fair value of individual reporting units and brands requires us to make assumptions and estimates regarding our future plans, as well as industry, economic, and regulatory conditions. These assumptions and estimates include estimated future annual net cash flows, income tax considerations, discount rates, growth rates, royalty rates, contributory asset charges, and other market factors. If current expectations of future growth rates and margins are not met, if market factors outside of our control, such as discount rates, change, or if management’s expectations or plans otherwise change, including as a result of updates to our global five-year operating plan, then one or more of our reporting units or brands might become impaired in the future. We are currently actively reviewing the enterprise strategy for the Company. As part of this strategic review, we expect to develop updates to the five-year operating plan in 2020, which could impact the allocation of investments among reporting units and brands and impact growth expectations and fair value estimates. Additionally, as a result of this strategic review process, we could decide to divest certain non-strategic assets. As a result, the ongoing development of the enterprise strategy and underlying detailed business plans could lead to the impairment of one or more of our reporting units or brands in the future, or a decision to amortize indefinite-lived intangible assets over a defined period of time. As detailed in Note 9, Goodwill and Intangible Assets, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, we recorded impairment losses related to goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets in the current year and in the prior year. Our reporting units and brands that were impaired in 2018 and 2019 were written down to their respective fair values resulting in zero excess fair value over carrying amount as of the applicable impairment test dates. Accordingly, these and other individual reporting units and brands that have 20% or less excess fair value over carrying amount as of their latest 2019 impairment testing date have a heightened risk of future impairments if any assumptions, estimates, or market factors change in the future. Reporting units with 10% or less fair value over carrying amount had an aggregate goodwill carrying amount of $32.4 billion as of their latest 2019 impairment testing date and included U.S. Grocery, U.S. Refrigerated, U.S. Foodservice, Canada Retail, Canada Foodservice, Latin America Exports, and EMEA East. Reporting units with between 10-20% fair value over carrying amount had an aggregate goodwill carrying amount of $676 million as of their latest 2019 impairment testing date and included Continental Europe and Northeast Asia. The aggregate goodwill carrying amount of reporting units with fair value over carrying amount between 20-50% was $2.4 billion and there were no reporting units with fair value over carrying amount in excess of 50% as of their latest 2019 impairment testing date. Brands with 10% or less fair value over carrying amount had an aggregate carrying amount after impairment of $26.2 billion as of their latest 2019 impairment testing date and included: Kraft, Philadelphia, Velveeta, Lunchables, Miracle Whip, Planters, Maxwell House, Cool Whip, and ABC. Brands with between 10-20% fair value over carrying amount had an aggregate carrying amount of $3.7 billion as of their latest 2019 impairment testing date and included Oscar Mayer, Jet Puffed, Wattie’s, and Quero. The aggregate carrying amount of brands with fair value over carrying amount between 20-50% was $4.2 billion as of their latest 2019 impairment testing date. Although the remaining brands, with a carrying value of $9.2 billion, have more than 50% excess fair value over carrying amount as of their latest 2019 impairment testing date, these amounts are also associated with the 2013 Heinz acquisition and the 2015 Merger and are recorded on the balance sheet at their estimated acquisition date fair values. Therefore, if any estimates, market factors, or assumptions, including those related to our enterprise strategy or business plans, change in the future, these amounts are also susceptible to impairments. We generally utilize the discounted cash flow method under the income approach to estimate the fair value of our reporting units. Some of the more significant assumptions inherent in estimating the fair values include the estimated future annual net cash flows for each reporting unit (including net sales, cost of products sold, SG&A, depreciation and amortization, working capital, and capital expenditures), income tax rates, long-term growth rates, and a discount rate that appropriately reflects the risks inherent in each future cash flow stream. We selected the assumptions used in the financial forecasts using historical data, supplemented by current and anticipated market conditions, estimated product category growth rates, management’s plans, and guideline companies. We utilize the excess earnings method under the income approach to estimate the fair value of certain of our largest brands. Some of the more significant assumptions inherent in estimating the fair values include the estimated future annual net cash flows for each brand (including net sales, cost of products sold, and SG&A), contributory asset charges, income tax considerations, long-term growth rates, a discount rate that reflects the level of risk associated with the future earnings attributable to the brand, and management’s intent to invest in the brand indefinitely. We selected the assumptions used in the financial forecasts using historical data, supplemented by current and anticipated market conditions, estimated product category growth rates, management’s plans, and guideline companies. We utilize the relief from royalty method under the income approach to estimate the fair value of our remaining brands. Some of the more significant assumptions inherent in estimating the fair values include the estimated future annual net sales for each brand, royalty rates (as a percentage of net sales that would hypothetically be charged by a licensor of the brand to an unrelated licensee), income tax considerations, long-term growth rates, a discount rate that reflects the level of risk associated with the future cost savings attributable to the brand, and management’s intent to invest in the brand indefinitely. We selected the assumptions used in the financial forecasts using historical data, supplemented by current and anticipated market conditions, estimated product category growth rates, management’s plans, and guideline companies. 29 The discount rates, long-term growth rates, and royalty rates used to estimate the fair values of our reporting units and brands with 10% or less excess fair value over carrying amount, as well as the goodwill or brand carrying amounts, as of the latest 2019 impairment testing date for each reporting unit or brand, were as follows: The discount rates, long-term growth rates, and royalty rates used to estimate the fair values of our reporting units and brands with between 10-20% excess fair value over carry amount, as well as the goodwill or brand carrying amounts, as of the latest 2019 impairment testing date for each reporting unit or brand, were as follows: Assumptions used in impairment testing are made at a point in time and require significant judgment; therefore, they are subject to change based on the facts and circumstances present at each annual and interim impairment test date. Additionally, these assumptions are generally interdependent and do not change in isolation. However, as it is reasonably possible that changes in assumptions could occur, as a sensitivity measure, we have presented the estimated effects of isolated changes in discount rates, long-term growth rates, and royalty rates on the fair values of our reporting units and brands with 10% or less excess fair value over carrying amount and between 10-20% excess fair value over carrying amount. These estimated changes in fair value are not necessarily representative of the actual impairment that would be recorded in the event of a fair value decline. If we had changed the assumptions used to estimate the fair value of our reporting units and brands with 10% or less excess fair value over carrying amount, as of the latest 2019 impairment testing date for each of these reporting units and brands, these isolated changes, which are reasonably possible to occur, would have led to the following increase/(decrease) in the aggregate fair value of these reporting units and brands (in billions): If we had changed the assumptions used to estimate the fair value of our reporting units and brands with between 10-20% excess fair value over carrying amount, as of the latest 2019 impairment testing date for each of these reporting units and brands, these isolated changes, which are reasonably possible to occur, would have led to the following increase/(decrease) in the aggregate fair value of these reporting units and brands (in billions): 30 Definite-lived intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated periods benefited. We review definite-lived intangible assets for impairment when conditions exist that indicate the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. Such conditions could include significant adverse changes in the business climate, current-period operating or cash flow losses, significant declines in forecasted operations, or a current expectation that an asset group will be disposed of before the end of its useful life. We perform undiscounted operating cash flow analyses to determine if an impairment exists. When testing for impairment of definite-lived intangible assets held for use, we group assets at the lowest level for which cash flows are separately identifiable. If an impairment is determined to exist, the loss is calculated based on estimated fair value. Impairment losses on definite-lived intangible assets to be disposed of, if any, are based on the estimated proceeds to be received, less costs of disposal. See Note 9, Goodwill and Intangible Assets, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for our impairment testing results. Postemployment Benefit Plans: We maintain various retirement plans for the majority of our employees. These include pension benefits, postretirement health care benefits, and defined contribution benefits. The cost of these plans is charged to expense over an appropriate term based on, among other things, the cost component and whether the plan is active or inactive. Changes in the fair value of our plan assets result in net actuarial gains or losses. These net actuarial gains and losses are deferred into accumulated other comprehensive income/(losses) and amortized within other expense/(income) in future periods using the corridor approach. The corridor is 10% of the greater of the market-related value of the plan’s asset or projected benefit obligation. Any actuarial gains and losses in excess of the corridor are then amortized over an appropriate term based on whether the plan is active or inactive. For our postretirement benefit plans, our 2020 health care cost trend rate assumption will be 6.5%. We established this rate based upon our most recent experience as well as our expectation for health care trend rates going forward. We anticipate the weighted average assumed ultimate trend rate will be 4.9%. The year in which the ultimate trend rate is reached varies by plan, ranging between the years 2020 and 2030. Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the health care plans. A one-percentage-point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have had the following effects, increase/(decrease) in cost and obligation, as of December 28, 2019 (in millions): One-Percentage-Point Increase (Decrease) Effect on annual service and interest cost $ 3 $ (2 ) Effect on postretirement benefit obligation 55 (47 ) Our 2020 discount rate assumption will be 3.3% for service cost and 2.7% for interest cost for our postretirement plans. Our 2020 discount rate assumption will be 3.6% for service cost and 3.0% for interest cost for our U.S. pension plans and 2.5% for service cost and 1.8% for interest cost for our non-U.S. pension plans. We model these discount rates using a portfolio of high quality, fixed-income debt instruments with durations that match the expected future cash flows of the plans. Changes in our discount rates were primarily the result of changes in bond yields year-over-year. Our 2020 expected return on plan assets will be 4.7% (net of applicable taxes) for our postretirement plans. Our 2020 expected rate of return on plan assets will be 4.5% for our U.S. pension plans and 3.8% for our non-U.S. pension plans. We determine our expected rate of return on plan assets from the plan assets’ historical long-term investment performance, current and future asset allocation, and estimates of future long-term returns by asset class. We attempt to maintain our target asset allocation by re-balancing between asset classes as we make contributions and monthly benefit payments. While we do not anticipate further changes in the 2020 assumptions for our U.S. and non-U.S. pension and postretirement benefit plans, as a sensitivity measure, a 100-basis-point change in our discount rate or a 100-basis-point change in the expected rate of return on plan assets would have the following effects, increase/(decrease) in cost (in millions): U.S. Plans Non-U.S. Plans 100-Basis-Point 100-Basis-Point Increase Decrease Increase Decrease Effect of change in discount rate on pension costs $ 11 $ (27 ) $ 8 $ (5 ) Effect of change in expected rate of return on plan assets on pension costs (47 ) 47 (28 ) 28 Effect of change in discount rate on postretirement costs (8 ) 6 (1 ) (1 ) Effect of change in expected rate of return on plan assets on postretirement costs (11 ) 11 — — 31 Income Taxes: We compute our annual tax rate based on the statutory tax rates and tax planning opportunities available to us in the various jurisdictions in which we earn income. Significant judgment is required in determining our annual tax rate and in evaluating the uncertainty of our tax positions. We recognize a benefit for tax positions that we believe will more likely than not be sustained upon examination. The amount of benefit recognized is the largest amount of benefit that we believe has more than a 50% probability of being realized upon settlement. We regularly monitor our tax positions and adjust the amount of recognized tax benefit based on our evaluation of information that has become available since the end of our last financial reporting period. The annual tax rate includes the impact of these changes in recognized tax benefits. When adjusting the amount of recognized tax benefits, we do not consider information that has become available after the balance sheet date, however we do disclose the effects of new information whenever those effects would be material to our financial statements. Unrecognized tax benefits represent the difference between the amount of benefit taken or expected to be taken in a tax return and the amount of benefit recognized for financial reporting. These unrecognized tax benefits are recorded primarily within other non-current liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets. We record valuation allowances to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. When assessing the need for valuation allowances, we consider future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. Should a change in circumstances lead to a change in judgment about the realizability of deferred tax assets in future years, we would adjust related valuation allowances in the period that the change in circumstances occurs, along with a corresponding increase or decrease to income. The resolution of tax reserves and changes in valuation allowances could be material to our results of operations for any period but is not expected to be material to our financial position. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 3, New Accounting Standards, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for a discussion of new accounting pronouncements. Contingencies See Note 17, Commitments and Contingencies, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for a discussion of our contingencies. Commodity Trends We purchase and use large quantities of commodities, including dairy products, meat products, coffee beans, nuts, tomatoes, potatoes, soybean and vegetable oils, sugar and other sweeteners, corn products, and wheat products to manufacture our products. In addition, we purchase and use significant quantities of resins, metals, and cardboard to package our products and natural gas to operate our facilities. We continuously monitor worldwide supply and cost trends of these commodities. We define our key commodities in the United States and Canada as dairy, meat, coffee, and nuts. In 2019, we experienced cost increases for dairy and meat, while costs for nuts and coffee decreased. We manage commodity cost volatility primarily through pricing and risk management strategies. As a result of these risk management strategies, our commodity costs may not immediately correlate with market price trends. Dairy commodities, primarily milk and cheese, are the most significant cost components of our cheese products. We purchase our dairy raw material requirements from independent third parties, such as agricultural cooperatives and independent processors. Market supply and demand, as well as government programs, significantly influence the prices for milk and other dairy products. Significant cost components of our meat products include pork, beef, and poultry, which we primarily purchase from applicable local markets. Livestock feed costs and the global supply and demand for U.S. meats influence the prices of these meat products. The most significant cost component of our coffee products is coffee beans, which we purchase on global markets. Quality and availability of supply, currency fluctuations, and consumer demand for coffee products impact coffee bean prices. The most significant cost components in our nut products include peanuts, cashews, and almonds, which we purchase on both domestic and global markets, where global market supply and demand is the primary driver of prices. 32 Liquidity and Capital Resources On February 14, 2020, Fitch and S&P downgraded our long-term credit rating from BBB- to BB+ with a stable outlook from Fitch and a negative outlook from S&P. As a result of the downgrades, our ability to borrow under our commercial paper program may be adversely affected for a period of time due to limitations on or elimination of our ability to access the commercial paper market. In addition, we could experience an increase in interest costs as a result of the downgrades. We do not expect any change in our plans to access liquidity over the next year as a result of the downgrades. These downgrades do not constitute a default or event of default under any of our debt instruments. Limitations on or elimination of our ability to access the commercial paper program may require us to borrow under the Senior Credit Facility, if necessary to meet liquidity needs. Our ability to borrow under the Senior Credit Facility is not affected by the downgrades. We believe that cash generated from our operating activities and Senior Credit Facility will provide sufficient liquidity to meet our working capital needs, future contractual obligations (including repayments of long-term debt), payment of our anticipated quarterly dividends, planned capital expenditures, restructuring expenditures, and contributions to our postemployment benefit plans. An additional potential source of liquidity is access to capital markets. We intend to use our cash on hand for daily funding requirements and access to our Senior Credit Facility, if necessary. Overall, while we are not currently eligible to use a registration statement on Form S-3 for any public offerings of registered debt or equity securities to raise capital, we do not expect our ineligibility to use a registration statement on Form S-3 to have any negative effects on our funding sources that would have a material effect on our short-term or long-term liquidity. Cash Flow Activity for 2019 Compared to 2018: Net Cash Provided by/Used for Operating Activities: Net cash provided by operating activities was $3.6 billion for the year ended December 28, 2019 compared to $2.6 billion for the year ended December 29, 2018. This increase was primarily driven by higher collections on trade receivables resulting from the reduction of receivables recorded as a non-cash exchange for sold receivables as we unwound all of our accounts receivable securitization and factoring programs (the “Programs”) in 2018 and as our trade receivables balance was higher at the end of 2018 compared to the end of 2017. This increase was partially offset by a federal tax refund received in the prior year, tax payments associated with the Heinz India Transaction, and increased cash payments for employee bonuses in 2019. See Note 16, Financing Arrangements, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information on our Programs. Net Cash Provided by/Used for Investing Activities: Net cash provided by investing activities was $1.5 billion for the year ended December 28, 2019 compared to $288 million for the year ended December 29, 2018. This increase was primarily driven by proceeds from our Canada Natural Cheese Transaction and Heinz India Transaction, proceeds from our net investment hedges, lower capital expenditures, and lower cash payments to acquire businesses year over year. These increases in cash provided by investing activities were partially offset by lower cash collections on previously sold receivables, as we unwound all of our Programs in 2018. We expect 2020 capital expenditures to be approximately $750 million. See Note 4, Acquisitions and Divestitures, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information on the Canada Natural Cheese Transaction, the Heinz India Transaction, and our acquisitions. Net Cash Provided by/Used for Financing Activities: Net cash used for financing activities was $3.9 billion for the year ended December 28, 2019 compared to $3.4 billion for the year ended December 29, 2018. This increase was primarily driven by higher repayments of long-term debt and higher debt prepayment and extinguishment costs, primarily related to our tender offers in September 2019 and debt redemptions in October 2019. These increases to net cash used for financing activities were partially offset by decreased cash distributions related to our dividends and lower net repayments of commercial paper. Proceeds from long-term debt issuances were mostly flat year over year. See Note 18, Debt, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information on our tender offers. See Equity and Dividends in this item for additional information on our dividends. Cash Held by International Subsidiaries: Of the $2.3 billion cash and cash equivalents on our consolidated balance sheet at December 28, 2019, $869 million was held by international subsidiaries. Subsequent to January 1, 2018, we consider the unremitted earnings of certain international subsidiaries that impose local country taxes on dividends to be indefinitely reinvested. For those undistributed earnings considered to be indefinitely reinvested, our intent is to reinvest these funds in our international operations, and our current plans do not demonstrate a need to repatriate the accumulated earnings to fund our U.S. cash requirements. The amount of unrecognized deferred tax liabilities for local country withholding taxes that would be owed related to our 2018 and 2019 accumulated earnings of certain international subsidiaries is approximately $70 million. 33 Our undistributed historic earnings in foreign subsidiaries through December 30, 2017 are currently not considered to be indefinitely reinvested. As of December 28, 2019, we have recorded a deferred tax liability of $20 million on approximately $300 million of historic earnings related to local withholding taxes that will be owed when this cash is distributed. As of December 29, 2018, we had recorded a deferred tax liability of $78 million on $1.2 billion of historic earnings. The decreases in our deferred tax liability and historic earnings are primarily due to repatriation. Related to these distributions, we reduced our historic earnings by approximately $700 million and recorded tax expenses of approximately $40 million and reduced the deferred tax liability accordingly. Additionally, we reduced our historic earnings by approximately $110 million following the ratification of the U.S. tax treaty with Spain, which eliminated withholding tax on Spanish distributions and resulted in a tax benefit of approximately $11 million and a corresponding decrease in our deferred tax liability. Finally, we reduced our historic earnings by approximately $30 million related to a held for sale business in our Rest of World segment, which resulted in a tax benefit of approximately $6 million. Trade Payables Programs: In order to manage our cash flow and related liquidity, we work with our suppliers to optimize our terms and conditions, which include the extension of payment terms. Our current payment terms with our suppliers, which we deem to be commercially reasonable, generally range from 0 to 200 days. We also maintain agreements with third party administrators that allow participating suppliers to track payment obligations from us, and, at the sole discretion of the supplier, sell one or more of those payment obligations to participating financial institutions. We have no economic interest in a supplier’s decision to enter into these agreements and no direct financial relationship with the financial institutions. Our obligations to our suppliers, including amounts due and scheduled payment terms, are not impacted. Supplier participation in these agreements is voluntary. We estimate that the amounts outstanding under these programs were $370 million at December 28, 2019 and $440 million at December 29, 2018. Borrowing Arrangements: We have historically obtained funding through our U.S. and European commercial paper programs. We had no commercial paper outstanding at December 28, 2019 or at December 29, 2018. The maximum amount of commercial paper outstanding during the year ended December 28, 2019 was $200 million. We maintain our $4.0 billion Senior Credit Facility, and subject to certain conditions, we may increase the amount of revolving commitments and/or add additional tranches of term loans in a combined aggregate amount of up to $1.0 billion. No amounts were drawn on our Senior Credit Facility at December 28, 2019, at December 29, 2018, or during the years ended December 28, 2019, December 29, 2018, and December 30, 2017. The Senior Credit Facility contains representations, warranties, and covenants that are typical for these types of facilities and could, upon the occurrence of certain events of default, restrict our ability to access our Senior Credit Facility. We were in compliance with all financial covenants as of December 28, 2019. Long-Term Debt: Our long-term debt, including the current portion, was $29.2 billion at December 28, 2019 and $31.1 billion at December 29, 2018. This decrease was primarily related to the $2.9 billion aggregate principal amount of certain senior notes and second lien senior secured notes that were validly tendered in September 2019, the redemption of approximately $1.5 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes in October 2019, and the repayment of $350 million aggregate principal amount of senior notes that matured in August 2019. These decreases to long-term debt were partially offset by the $3.0 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes issued in September 2019. We used the proceeds from the issuance of these senior notes, together with cash on hand, to fund our tender offers in September 2019 and to pay fees and expenses in connection therewith, and to fund the partial redemption of $1.3 billion aggregate principal amount of our 2.800% senior notes due July 2020 and 300 million Canadian dollar senior notes due July 2020. We repaid approximately $405 million aggregate principal amount of senior notes on February 10, 2020. We have aggregate principal amount of senior notes of approximately 500 million Canadian dollars and $200 million maturing in July 2020. We expect to fund these long-term debt repayments primarily with cash on hand and cash generated from our operating activities. Our long-term debt contains customary representations, covenants, and events of default. We were in compliance with all financial covenants as of December 28, 2019. See Note 18, Debt, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information related to our long-term debt. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Aggregate Contractual Obligations Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements: We do not have guarantees or other off-balance sheet financing arrangements that we believe are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenue or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources. 34 We have utilized accounts receivable securitization and factoring programs globally for our working capital needs and to provide efficient liquidity. During 2018, we had Programs in place in various countries across the globe. In the second quarter of 2018, we unwound our U.S. securitization program, which represented the majority of our Programs, using proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt in June 2018. As of December 29, 2018, we had unwound all of our Programs. See Note 16, Financing Arrangements, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for a discussion of our Programs and other financing arrangements. Aggregate Contractual Obligations: The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at December 28, 2019 (in millions): (a) Amounts represent the expected cash payments of our long-term debt, including interest on variable and fixed rate long-term debt. Interest on variable rate long-term debt is calculated based on interest rates at December 28, 2019. (b) Amounts represent the expected cash payments of our finance leases, including expected cash payments of interest expense. (c) Operating leases represent the minimum rental commitments under non-cancellable operating leases net of sublease income. (d) We have purchase obligations for materials, supplies, property, plant and equipment, and co-packing, storage, and distribution services based on projected needs to be utilized in the normal course of business. Other purchase obligations include commitments for marketing, advertising, capital expenditures, information technology, and professional services. Arrangements are considered purchase obligations if a contract specifies all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased, a pricing structure, and approximate timing of the transaction. Several of these obligations are long-term and are based on minimum purchase requirements. Certain purchase obligations contain variable pricing components, and, as a result, actual cash payments are expected to fluctuate based on changes in these variable components. Due to the proprietary nature of some of our materials and processes, certain supply contracts contain penalty provisions for early terminations. We do not believe that a material amount of penalties is reasonably likely to be incurred under these contracts based upon historical experience and current expectations. We exclude amounts reflected on the consolidated balance sheet as accounts payable and accrued liabilities from the table above. (e) Other long-term liabilities primarily consist of estimated payments for the one-time toll charge related to U.S. Tax Reform, as well as postretirement benefit commitments. Certain other long-term liabilities related to income taxes, insurance accruals, and other accruals included on the consolidated balance sheet are excluded from the above table as we are unable to estimate the timing of payments for these items. Pension plan contributions were $19 million in 2019. We estimate that 2020 pension plan contributions will be approximately $19 million. Beyond 2020, we are unable to reliably estimate the timing of contributions to our pension plans. Our actual contributions and plans may change due to many factors, including changes in tax, employee benefit, or other laws and regulations, tax deductibility, significant differences between expected and actual pension asset performance or interest rates, or other factors. As such, estimated pension plan contributions for 2020 have been excluded from the above table. Postretirement benefit plan contributions were $12 million in 2019. We estimate that 2020 postretirement benefit plan contributions will be approximately $15 million. Beyond 2020, we are unable to reliably estimate the timing of contributions to our postretirement benefit plans. Our actual contributions and plans may change due to many factors, including changes in tax, employee benefit, or other laws and regulations, tax deductibility, significant differences between expected and actual postretirement plan asset performance or interest rates, or other factors. As such, estimated postretirement benefit plan contributions for 2020 have been excluded from the above table. At December 28, 2019, the amount of net unrecognized tax benefits for uncertain tax positions, including an accrual of related interest and penalties along with positions only impacting the timing of tax benefits, was approximately $468 million. The timing of payments will depend on the progress of examinations with tax authorities. We do not expect a significant tax payment related to these obligations within the next year. We are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate as to if or when any significant cash settlements with taxing authorities may occur; therefore, we have excluded the amount of net unrecognized tax benefits from the above table. 35 Equity and Dividends We paid common stock dividends of $2.0 billion in 2019, $3.2 billion in 2018, and $2.9 billion in 2017. Additionally, on February 13, 2020, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.40 per share of common stock, which is payable on March 27, 2020 to shareholders of record on March 13, 2020. The declaration of dividends is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and depends on various factors, including our net income, financial condition, cash requirements, future prospects, and other factors that our Board of Directors deems relevant to its analysis and decision making. Non-GAAP Financial Measures The non-GAAP financial measures we provide in this report should be viewed in addition to, and not as an alternative for, results prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. To supplement the consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, we have presented Organic Net Sales, Adjusted EBITDA, and Adjusted EPS, which are considered non-GAAP financial measures. The non-GAAP financial measures presented may differ from similarly titled non-GAAP financial measures presented by other companies, and other companies may not define these non-GAAP financial measures in the same way. These measures are not substitutes for their comparable U.S. GAAP financial measures, such as net sales, net income/(loss), diluted earnings per common share (“EPS”), or other measures prescribed by U.S. GAAP, and there are limitations to using non-GAAP financial measures. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures to assist in comparing our performance on a consistent basis for purposes of business decision making by removing the impact of certain items that management believes do not directly reflect our underlying operations. Management believes that presenting our non-GAAP financial measures (i.e., Organic Net Sales, Adjusted EBITDA, and Adjusted EPS) is useful to investors because it (i) provides investors with meaningful supplemental information regarding financial performance by excluding certain items, (ii) permits investors to view performance using the same tools that management uses to budget, make operating and strategic decisions, and evaluate historical performance, and (iii) otherwise provides supplemental information that may be useful to investors in evaluating our results. We believe that the presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures, when considered together with the corresponding U.S. GAAP financial measures and the reconciliations to those measures, provides investors with additional understanding of the factors and trends affecting our business than could be obtained absent these disclosures. Organic Net Sales is defined as net sales excluding, when they occur, the impact of currency, acquisitions and divestitures, and a 53rd week of shipments. We calculate the impact of currency on net sales by holding exchange rates constant at the previous year’s exchange rate, with the exception of highly inflationary subsidiaries, for which we calculate the previous year’s results using the current year’s exchange rate. Organic Net Sales is a tool that can assist management and investors in comparing our performance on a consistent basis by removing the impact of certain items that management believes do not directly reflect our underlying operations. Adjusted EBITDA is defined as net income/(loss) from continuing operations before interest expense, other expense/(income), provision for/(benefit from) income taxes, and depreciation and amortization (excluding integration and restructuring expenses); in addition to these adjustments, we exclude, when they occur, the impacts of integration and restructuring expenses, deal costs, unrealized losses/(gains) on commodity hedges, impairment losses, and equity award compensation expense (excluding integration and restructuring expenses). Adjusted EBITDA is a tool that can assist management and investors in comparing our performance on a consistent basis by removing the impact of certain items that management believes do not directly reflect our underlying operations. Adjusted EPS is defined as diluted earnings per share excluding, when they occur, the impacts of integration and restructuring expenses, deal costs, unrealized losses/(gains) on commodity hedges, impairment losses, losses/(gains) on the sale of a business, other losses/(gains) related to acquisitions and divestitures (e.g., tax and hedging impacts), nonmonetary currency devaluation (e.g., remeasurement gains and losses), debt prepayment and extinguishment costs, and U.S. Tax Reform discrete income tax expense/(benefit), and including, when they occur, adjustments to reflect preferred stock dividend payments on an accrual basis. We believe Adjusted EPS provides important comparability of underlying operating results, allowing investors and management to assess operating performance on a consistent basis. 36 The Kraft Heinz Company Reconciliation of Net Sales to Organic Net Sales (dollars in millions) (Unaudited) 37 The Kraft Heinz Company Reconciliation of Net Sales to Organic Net Sales (dollars in millions) (Unaudited) 38 The Kraft Heinz Company Reconciliation of Net Income/(Loss) to Adjusted EBITDA (in millions) (Unaudited) 39 The Kraft Heinz Company Reconciliation of Diluted EPS to Adjusted EPS (Unaudited) (d) Gross impairment losses, which were recorded in SG&A, included the following: (e) Gross expenses/(income) included in losses/(gains) on sale of business were income of $420 million in 2019 ( $275 million after-tax) and losses of $15 million in 2018 ( $15 million after-tax) and were recorded in other expense/(income). (f) Gross expenses/(income) included in other losses/(gains) related to acquisitions and divestitures were income of $5 million in 2019 ( $5 million after-tax) and expenses of $27 million in 2018 ( $15 million after-tax) and were recorded in the following income statement line items: • Provision for/(benefit from) income taxes included $7 million in 2018. (h) Gross expenses included in debt prepayment and extinguishment costs were $98 million in 2019 ( $73 million after-tax) and were recorded in interest expense. (i) U.S. Tax Reform discrete income tax expense/(benefit) was an expense of $104 million in 2018 and a benefit of $7.0 billion in 2017. Expenses in 2018 primarily related to the revaluation of our deferred tax balances due to changes in state tax laws following U.S. Tax Reform. These expenses were partially offset by net benefits related to changes in U.S. tax reserves, U.S. Tax Reform measurement period adjustments, changes in estimates of certain 2017 U.S. income tax deductions, and the release of valuation allowances related to foreign tax credits. The benefit in 2017 was related to the enactment of U.S. Tax Reform. See Note 10, Income Taxes, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information. 40 Item 7A.