 PART I Item 1. Business. General We are driving transformation at The Kraft Heinz Company (Nasdaq: KHC), inspired by our Purpose, Let’s Make Life Delicious. Consumers are at the center of everything we do. With 2020 net sales of approximately $26 billion, we are committed to growing our iconic and emerging food and beverage brands on a global scale. We leverage our scale and agility to unleash the full power of Kraft Heinz across a portfolio of six consumer-driven product platforms. As global citizens, we’re dedicated to making a sustainable, ethical impact while helping feed the world in healthy, responsible ways. On July 2, 2015, through a series of transactions, we consummated the merger of Kraft Foods Group, Inc. (“Kraft”) with and into a wholly-owned subsidiary of H.J. Heinz Holding Corporation (“Heinz”) (the “2015 Merger”). At the closing of the 2015 Merger, Heinz was renamed The Kraft Heinz Company, and H. J. Heinz Company changed its name to Kraft Heinz Foods Company. Before the consummation of the 2015 Merger, Heinz was controlled by Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (“Berkshire Hathaway”) and 3G Global Food Holdings, LP (“3G Global Food Holdings” and, together with its affiliates, “3G Capital”) (3G Capital together with Berkshire Hathaway, the “Sponsors”), following their acquisition of H. J. Heinz Company on June 7, 2013. We operate on a 52- or 53-week fiscal year ending on the last Saturday in December in each calendar year. Unless the context requires otherwise, references to years and quarters contained herein pertain to our fiscal years and fiscal quarters. Our 2020 fiscal year was a 52-week period that ended on December 26, 2020, the 2019 fiscal year was a 52-week period that ended on December 28, 2019, and the 2018 fiscal year was a 52-week period that ended on December 29, 2018. Reportable Segments: In the first quarter of 2020, our internal reporting and reportable segments changed. We moved our Puerto Rico business from the Latin America zone to the United States zone to consolidate and streamline the management of our product categories and supply chain. We also combined our Europe, Middle East, and Africa (“EMEA”), Latin America, and Asia Pacific (“APAC”) zones to form the International zone as a result of certain previously announced organizational changes. Therefore, effective in the first quarter of 2020, we manage and report our operating results through three reportable segments defined by geographic region: United States, International, and Canada. We have reflected these changes in all historical periods presented. See Note 22, Segment Reporting, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for our geographic financial information by segment. COVID-19 Pandemic: In 2020 and continuing into 2021, the COVID-19 pandemic, along with government and consumer responses to the pandemic, caused, and continue to cause, uncertainty in the U.S. and global economies. The ongoing spread of COVID-19 throughout the United States and internationally, and measures implemented by governmental authorities in an attempt to contain the virus, including social distancing restrictions, shelter-in-place orders, and business shutdowns, have had and continue to have negative and positive implications for portions of our business. During 2020, COVID-19 produced a beneficial impact on our consolidated net sales results, as increased demand for our retail products more than offset declines in our foodservice (or away-from-home) business. We incurred additional COVID-19-related operating costs as we focused on meeting increased retail demand, adding additional sanitation measures, and providing personal protective equipment to our employees. While we expect volatility in the demand for our products to continue through the first quarter of 2021 and potentially beyond, particularly as it relates to our foodservice business, COVID-19 and its impacts are unprecedented and continuously evolving, and the long-term impacts to our financial condition and results of operations are still uncertain. 1 Resources Trademarks and Intellectual Property: Our trademarks are material to our business and are among our most valuable assets. Depending on the country, trademarks generally remain valid for as long as they are in use or their registration status is maintained. Trademark registrations generally are for renewable, fixed terms. Significant trademarks by segment based on net sales in 2020 were: Majority Owned and Licensed Trademarks United States Kraft, Oscar Mayer, Heinz, Philadelphia, Velveeta, Lunchables, Planters, Maxwell House, Capri Sun*, Ore-Ida, Jell-O, Kool-Aid International Heinz, ABC, Master, Kraft, Golden Circle, Quero, Plasmon, Wattie’s, Pudliszki Canada Kraft, Philadelphia, Heinz, Classico, Maxwell House *Used under license. We sell certain products under brands we license from third parties. In 2020, brands used under licenses from third parties included Capri Sun packaged drink pouches for sale in the United States, TGI Fridays frozen snacks and appetizers in the United States and Canada, McCafé ground, whole bean, and on-demand single cup coffees in the United States, and Taco Bell Home Originals Mexican-style food products in U.S. grocery stores. Our license to use the McCafé brand expired in the United States in July 2020 and in Canada in December 2019. In addition, in our agreements with Mondelēz International, Inc. (“Mondelēz International”), following the spin-off of Kraft from Mondelēz International in 2012, we each granted the other party various licenses to use certain of our and their respective intellectual property rights in named jurisdictions for certain periods of time. We also own numerous patents worldwide. We consider our portfolio of patents, patent applications, patent licenses under patents owned by third parties, proprietary trade secrets, technology, know-how processes, and related intellectual property rights to be material to our operations. Patents, issued or applied for, cover inventions ranging from packaging techniques to processes relating to specific products and to the products themselves. While our patent portfolio is material to our business, the loss of one patent or a group of related patents would not have a material adverse effect on our business. Our issued patents extend for varying periods according to the date of the patent application filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. The actual protection afforded by a patent, which can vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage as determined by the patent office or courts in the country, and the availability of legal remedies in the country. Raw Materials and Packaging: We manufacture (and contract for the manufacture of) our products from a wide variety of raw materials. We purchase and use large quantities of commodities, including dairy products, meat products, coffee beans, nuts, tomatoes, potatoes, soybean and vegetable oils, sugar and other sweeteners, corn products, wheat products, and cocoa products, to manufacture our products. In addition, we purchase and use significant quantities of resins, metals, and cardboard to package our products, and we use natural gas, electricity, and diesel fuel in the manufacturing and distribution of our products. For commodities that we use across many of our product categories, such as corrugated paper and energy, we coordinate sourcing requirements and centralize procurement to leverage our scale. In addition, some of our product lines and brands separately source raw materials that are specific to their operations. We source these commodities from a variety of providers, including large, international producers and smaller, local, independent sellers. Where appropriate, we seek to establish preferred purchaser status and have developed strategic partnerships with many of our suppliers with the objective of achieving favorable pricing and dependable supply for many of our commodities. The prices of raw materials that we use in our products are affected by external factors, such as global competition for resources, currency fluctuations, severe weather or global climate change, pandemics, consumer, industrial, or investment demand, and changes in governmental regulation and trade, tariffs, alternative energy, and agricultural programs. Our procurement teams monitor worldwide supply and cost trends so we can obtain ingredients and packaging needed for production at competitive prices. Although the prices of our principal raw materials can be expected to fluctuate, we believe there will be an adequate supply of the raw materials we use and that they are generally available from numerous sources. We use a range of hedging techniques in an effort to limit the impact of price fluctuations on many of our principal raw materials. However, we do not fully hedge against changes in commodity prices, and our hedging strategies may not protect us from increases in specific raw material costs. We actively monitor changes to commodity costs so that we can seek to mitigate the effect through pricing and other operational measures. 2 Research and Development Our research and development efforts focus on achieving the following four objectives: • product innovations, renovations, and new technologies to meet changing consumer needs and drive growth; • world-class and uncompromising food safety, quality, and consistency; • superior, customer-preferred product and package performance; and • continuous process improvement and product optimization in pursuit of cost reductions. Competition Our products are sold in highly competitive marketplaces, which have experienced increased concentration and the growing presence of e-commerce retailers, large-format retailers, and discounters. Our competitors include large national and international food and beverage companies and numerous local and regional companies. We compete with both branded and private label products sold by retailers, wholesalers, and cooperatives. We compete on the basis of product innovation, price, product quality, nutritional value, service, taste, convenience, brand recognition and loyalty, effectiveness of marketing and distribution, promotional activity, and the ability to identify and satisfy changing consumer preferences. Improving our market position or introducing new products requires substantial advertising and promotional expenditures. Sales Sales and Customers: Our products are sold through our own sales organizations and through independent brokers, agents, and distributors to chain, wholesale, cooperative and independent grocery accounts, convenience stores, drug stores, value stores, bakeries, pharmacies, mass merchants, club stores, foodservice distributors, and institutions, including hotels, restaurants, hospitals, health care facilities, and certain government agencies. Our products are also sold online through various e-commerce platforms and retailers. Our largest customer, Walmart Inc., represented approximately 22% of our net sales in 2020 and approximately 21% of our net sales in both 2019 and 2018. Additionally, we have key customers in different regions around the world; however, none of these customers are individually significant to our consolidated business. In 2020, the five largest customers in our United States segment accounted for approximately 50% of United States segment net sales, the five largest customers in our International segment accounted for approximately 18% of International segment net sales, and the five largest customers in our Canada segment accounted for approximately 76% of Canada segment net sales. We manage our sales portfolio through six consumer-driven product platforms. A platform is a lens created for the portfolio based on a grouping of real consumer needs and includes the following for Kraft Heinz: Taste Elevation, Fast Fresh Meals, Easy Meals Made Better, Real Food Snacking, Flavorful Hydration, and Easy Indulgent Desserts. The platforms are modular and configurable by reportable segment and market. Further, each platform is assigned a role within our business to help inform our resource allocation and investment decisions, which are made at the reportable segment level. These roles include: Grow, Energize, and Stabilize. The role of a platform may also vary by reportable segment and market. The platform approach helps us to manage our business efficiently, including the oversight of our various product categories and brands, and transforms the way we plan for our growth. Net Sales by Platform: Net sales by platform as a percentage of consolidated net sales for the periods presented were: 3 Net Sales by Product Category: The product categories that contributed 10% or more to consolidated net sales in any of the periods presented were: Seasonality Although crops constituting certain of our raw food ingredients are harvested on a seasonal basis, the majority of our products are produced throughout the year. Seasonal factors inherent in our business change the demand for products, including holidays, changes in seasons, or other annual events. While these factors influence our quarterly net sales, operating income/(loss), and cash flows at the product level, unless the timing of such events shift period-over-period (e.g., a shift in Easter timing), this seasonality does not typically have a significant effect on our consolidated results of operations or segment results. Government Regulation The manufacture and sale of consumer food and beverage products is highly regulated. Our business operations, including the production, transportation, storage, distribution, sale, display, advertising, marketing, labeling, quality and safety of our products and their ingredients, and our occupational safety, health, and privacy practices, are subject to various laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are administered by federal, state, and local government agencies in the United States, as well as government entities and agencies outside the United States in markets where our products are manufactured, distributed, or sold. In the United States, our activities are subject to regulation by various federal government agencies, including the Food and Drug Administration, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Federal Trade Commission, Department of Labor, Department of Commerce, and Environmental Protection Agency, as well as various state and local agencies. We are also subject to numerous similar and other laws and regulations outside of the United States, including but not limited to laws and regulations governing food safety, health and safety, anti-corruption, and data privacy. In our business dealings, we are also required to comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), the U.K. Bribery Act, the Trade Sanctions Reform and Export Enhancement Act, and various other anti-corruption regulations in the regions in which we operate. We rely on legal and operational compliance programs, as well as in-house and outside counsel, to guide our businesses in complying with applicable laws and regulations of the countries in which we do business. In addition, regulatory regime changes may add cost and complexity to our compliance efforts. Environmental Regulation: Our activities throughout the world are highly regulated and subject to government oversight regarding environmental matters. Various laws concerning the handling, storage, and disposal of hazardous materials and the operation of facilities in environmentally sensitive locations may impact aspects of our operations. In the United States, where a significant portion of our business operates, these laws and regulations include the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (“CERCLA”). CERCLA imposes joint and several liability on each potentially responsible party. We are involved in a number of active proceedings in the United States under CERCLA (and other similar state actions under similar legislation) related to our current operations and certain closed, inactive, or divested operations for which we retain liability. As of December 26, 2020, we had accrued an amount we deemed appropriate for environmental remediation. Based on information currently available, we believe that the ultimate resolution of existing environmental remediation actions and our compliance in general with environmental laws and regulations will not have a material effect on our earnings or financial condition. However, it is difficult to predict with certainty the potential impact of future compliance efforts and environmental remedial actions and thus, future costs associated with such matters may exceed current reserves. 4 Human Capital Management We are driven by our Vision: To sustainably grow by delighting more consumers globally. We recognize that a strong company culture is vital to our success and to executing our Vision. We strive to create a culture of open communication and transparency. Our Values are We are consumer obsessed, We dare to do better every day, We champion great people, We demand diversity, We do the right thing, and We own it, and they are the foundation upon which our culture is built. They represent the expectations we have for ourselves and the environment we aspire to create for our Company. We invest in attracting, developing, and retaining diverse, world-class talent and creating an engaging and inclusive culture that embodies our Purpose, Vision, and Values. As of December 26, 2020, we had approximately 38,000 employees globally. Driven by our Value of We champion great people, we are committed to supporting our employees’ health, safety, and professional development and to rewarding outstanding performance at every level. Our compensation, benefits, recognition, and LiveWell programs are designed to attract and retain highly skilled talent, meet individual and family needs, and inspire, celebrate, and engage our people and teams through active listening channels. Our Board of Directors (“Board”), through the Compensation Committee, oversees our human resources strategy and key policies and practices, including with respect to workplace environment and culture and talent development and retention. Guided by our Values, we conduct a global engagement survey annually to provide our employees with an opportunity to share confidential and anonymous feedback with management in a variety of areas, including confidence in leadership, communication and collaboration, growth and career opportunities, available resources, and belonging. Leaders review the results to determine opportunities to reinvest in our people and develop action plans for their specific teams, as well as, our broader organization. For more detailed information regarding our programs and initiatives related to our people and human capital management, please see the “People, Workplace and Culture” section of our 2020 Environmental Social Governance Report (“ESG Report”), located on our website at www.kraftheinzcompany.com/esg. The information on our website, including our ESG Report is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or incorporated into any other filings we make with the SEC. Wellbeing and Safety: Our employees’ health, safety, and wellbeing are our top priority. We create and administer company-wide policies and processes to protect the health, safety, and security of our employees, subcontractors, and all those who visit our facilities, and to comply with applicable regulations. We review and monitor our performance closely to drive continuous improvement. In response to the emergence of COVID-19 in early 2020, we provided enhanced benefits and implemented additional workplace safety programs and processes in all our facilities. As the circumstances and impacts of COVID-19 evolve, we continue to evaluate our response and adapt to protect the health and safety of our employees, while supporting consumers and our communities. Our global LiveWell program addresses physical, emotional, financial, and social health and wellbeing through speaker series, events, and initiatives. We have continued to champion the LiveWell program’s holistic approach to wellbeing in response to COVID-19 with enhanced programs, including healthcare benefits, disability, and employee assistance initiatives. Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging: We live our Value of We demand diversity by focusing on three strategic areas: hiring and growing talent from diverse backgrounds and perspectives, developing inclusive leaders, and determining how to evaluate and report on our progress. In 2020, we launched our Global Inclusion Council, a cross-functional team of executive leaders and Board members, to help create strategic accountability for results and provide governance and oversight on our diversity, inclusion, and belonging initiatives. Learning and Development: Through Kraft Heinz Ownerversity we provide learning and development offerings to employees, including both custom internal training and external learning resources via both live and virtual learning experiences. These offerings enable employees to execute with excellence in their current roles, accelerate their learning curves, and grow great careers through continuous learning. With Ownerversity’s targeted platforms our employees can focus on timely and topical development areas including leadership, management excellence, functional capabilities, and diversity, inclusion, and belonging. Rewards and Compensation: Our Total Rewards philosophy is designed to provide an array of meaningful and flexible programs for our diverse workforce. Our reward programs complement our strategy and Values and enable us to attract and retain qualified individuals. They are market competitive and data-driven to sustain our high-performance and results-oriented culture. 5 Information about our Executive Officers The following are our executive officers as of February 13, 2021: Name Age Title Miguel Patricio 54 Chief Executive Officer Paulo Basilio 46 Global Chief Financial Officer Carlos Abrams-Rivera 53 U.S. Zone President Bruno Keller 39 Canada Zone President Rashida La Lande 47 Senior Vice President, Global General Counsel and Head of ESG and Government Affairs; Corporate Secretary Marcos Eloi Lima 43 Chief Procurement Officer Rafael Oliveira 46 International Zone President Flavio Torres 51 Head of Global Operations Miguel Patricio became Chief Executive Officer in June 2019. Mr. Patricio had previously served as Chief of Special Global Projects-Marketing at Anheuser-Busch InBev SA/NV (“AB InBev”), a multinational drink and brewing holdings company, from January 2019 to June 2019. Prior to that, he served as the Chief Marketing Officer at AB InBev since 2012. Prior to his role as Chief Marketing Officer, Mr. Patricio served in various roles for AB InBev and its predecessor Companhia de Bebidas das Americas S.A. (“Ambev”) since joining Ambev in 1998, including as AB InBev’s Zone President Asia Pacific, Zone President North America, Vice President Marketing of North America, and Vice President Marketing. Mr. Patricio has also previously held several senior positions across the Americas at Philip Morris, The Coca-Cola Company, and Johnson & Johnson. Mr. Patricio also invests in the 3G Special Situation Fund III (the “Fund”); his investment represents less than 1% of the Fund’s assets. Paulo Basilio became Global Chief Financial Officer in September 2019. Prior to that role, Mr. Basilio served as Chief Business Planning and Development Officer from July 2019 to September 2019 and served as President of the U.S. Commercial Business from October 2017 to June 2019. Mr. Basilio previously served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer upon the closing of the 2015 Merger until October 2017. He previously served as Chief Financial Officer of Heinz since June 2013. Previously, Mr. Basilio served as Chief Executive Officer of América Latina Logística (“ALL”), a logistics company, from September 2010 to June 2012, after having served in various roles at ALL, including Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Basilio has also been a partner of 3G Capital since July 2012. Carlos Abrams-Rivera joined Kraft Heinz as U.S. Zone President in February 2020. Prior to joining Kraft Heinz, Mr. Abrams-Rivera served as Executive Vice President and President, Campbell Snacks of Campbell Soup Company (“Campbell”), a multinational food company, since May 2019. Prior to that role, Mr. Abrams-Rivera served as President, Campbell Snacks from March 2018 to May 2019 and President of Campbell’s Pepperidge Farm subsidiary from 2015 to March 2018. Prior to joining Campbell, Mr. Abrams-Rivera held various leadership roles at Mondelēz International and Kraft Foods Group, Inc. Bruno Keller assumed his current role as Canada Zone President in September 2019. Previously, Mr. Keller had served as Head of Category Development for Canada since June 2018. From April 2017 to June 2018, he served as Managing Director for South Europe, and from June 2015 to April 2017, he served as Managing Director of Italy. Mr. Keller joined Kraft Heinz in 2014 as Director of Trade Marketing and Revenue Management in Italy. Prior to joining Kraft Heinz, Mr. Keller held management roles at AB InBev, Philip Morris, Pepsico, and Unilever. Rashida La Lande joined Kraft Heinz as Senior Vice President, Global General Counsel and Corporate Secretary in January 2018. In October 2018, Ms. La Lande’s responsibilities expanded to include leadership of our corporate social responsibility and government affairs functions, and she was later appointed Head of Environmental Social Governance and Government Affairs (previously called Corporate Social Responsibility and Government Affairs) in addition to her role as Senior Vice President, Global General Counsel and Corporate Secretary. Prior to joining Kraft Heinz, Ms. La Lande was a partner at the law firm of Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher, where she practiced from October 2000 to January 2018, and where she advised clients with respect to mergers and acquisitions, leveraged buyouts, private equity deals, and joint ventures. Throughout Ms. La Lande’s career, she has advised companies and private equity sponsors in the consumer products, retail, financial services, and technology industries. Marcos Eloi Lima became Chief Procurement Officer in October 2019. Prior to that role, Mr. Lima served as Advisor in the area of procurement since joining Kraft Heinz in July 2019. Prior to joining Kraft Heinz, Mr. Lima served in various roles in procurement and sustainability for AB InBev and its predecessors InBev NV and Ambev from March 1999 to July 2019, including most recently as Vice President Procurement & Sustainability Middle Americas Zone from October 2016 to July 2019 and Vice President Global Packaging Procurement from January 2014 to September 2016. 6 Rafael Oliveira assumed his current role as International Zone President in July 2019. Prior to that role, he served as Zone President of EMEA from October 2016 to June 2019 after serving as the Managing Director of Kraft Heinz UK & Ireland. Mr. Oliveira joined Kraft Heinz in July 2014 and served as President of Kraft Heinz Australia, New Zealand, and Papua New Guinea until September 2016. Prior to joining Kraft Heinz, Mr. Oliveira spent 17 years in the financial industry, the final 10 of which he held a variety of leadership positions with Goldman Sachs. Flavio Torres joined Kraft Heinz as Head of Global Operations in January 2020. Prior to joining Kraft Heinz, Mr. Torres served as Global Operations VP of AB InBev from 2017 to 2019. Prior to that role, Mr. Torres served as Supply Chain VP at Ambev from 2014 to 2016. Mr. Torres served in positions of increasing responsibility during his tenure at AB InBev and its predecessors since joining Ambev in 1994. Available Information Our website address is www.kraftheinzcompany.com. The information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or incorporated into any other filings we make with the SEC. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (the “Exchange Act”), are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the SEC. In addition, the SEC maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including Kraft Heinz, that are electronically filed with the SEC. Item 1A.