 PART I Item 1. Business. General We are one of the world’s largest snack companies with global net revenues of $26.6 billion and net earnings of $3.6 billion in 2020. We make and sell primarily snacks, including biscuits (cookies, crackers and salted snacks), chocolate, gum & candy, as well as various cheese & grocery and powdered beverage products. Our portfolio includes snack brands such as Cadbury, Milka and Toblerone chocolate; Oreo, belVita and LU biscuits; Halls candy; Trident gum and Tang powdered beverages. Mondelēz International at a Glance Strategy We aim to be the global leader in snacking by focusing on growth, execution and culture. In 2020, while the COVID-19 pandemic significantly affected economies, marketplaces, communities and businesses around the world, including ours, we prioritized our employees, customers and communities and largely continued to execute against our strategic priorities and positioned ourselves to emerge stronger. Please refer to our COVID-19 discussion in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Our strategic plan builds on our strong foundations, including our unique portfolio of iconic global and local brands, our attractive global footprint, our market leadership in developed and emerging markets, our deep innovation, marketing and distribution capabilities, and our margin expansion in recent years that allows us to make ongoing investments in our brands and capabilities. Our plan to drive long-term growth includes three strategic priorities: accelerating consumer-centric growth, driving operational excellence and creating a winning growth culture. • Accelerate consumer-centric growth. As demands on consumers’ time increase and consumer eating habits evolve, we aim to meet consumers' snacking needs by providing the right snack, for the right moment, made the right way. We have developed innovative approaches to identify and address how consumers snack across different emotional and functional needs and occasions that we believe will allow us to meet their needs and identify new innovation and renovation opportunities. We plan to test, learn and scale new product offerings quickly to meet diverse and evolving local and global snacking demand. We believe our understanding of consumers’ behavior will continue to lead to our meeting more of their needs and the growing demand for snacks. • Drive operational excellence. Our operational excellence and continuous improvement plans include a special focus on the consumer-facing areas of our business and optimizing our sales, marketing and customer service efforts. To drive productivity gains and cost improvements across our business, we also plan to continue leveraging our global shared services platform, driving greater efficiencies in our supply 3 chain and continuing to utilize Zero-Based Budgeting across our operations. We expect the improvements and efficiencies we drive will fuel our growth and continue to expand profit dollars. At the same time, we are continuing our efforts to sustainably source key ingredients, reduce our end-to-end environmental impact and innovate our processes and packaging to reduce waste and promote recycling. • Build a winning growth culture. To support the acceleration of our growth, we are becoming more agile, digital and local-consumer focused. We are giving our local teams more autonomy to drive commercial and innovation plans as they are closer to the needs and desires of consumers. We will continue to leverage the efficiency and scale of our regional operating units while empowering our local commercial operations to respond faster to changing consumer preferences and capitalize on growth opportunities. Our digital transformation program will also help to enable consumer demand and sales opportunities. We believe these operating and cultural shifts will help drive profitable top-line growth. We run our business with a long-term perspective, and we believe the successful delivery of our strategic plan will drive top- and bottom-line growth and enable us to create long-term value for our shareholders. Global Operations We sell our products in over 150 countries and have operations in approximately 80 countries, including 133 manufacturing and processing facilities across 45 countries. The portion of our net revenues generated outside the United States was 73.2% in 2020, 74.4% in 2019 and 75.3% in 2018. For more information on our U.S. and non-U.S. operations, refer to Note 18, Segment Reporting; on our manufacturing and other facilities, refer to Item 2, Properties; and risks related to our operations outside the United States, see Item 1A, Risk Factors. We also monitor our revenue growth across emerging and developed markets— • Our emerging markets include our Latin America region in its entirety; the Asia, Middle East and Africa (“AMEA”) region, excluding Australia, New Zealand and Japan; and the following countries from the Europe region: Russia, Ukraine, Turkey, Kazakhstan, Georgia, Poland, Czech Republic, Slovak Republic, Hungary, Bulgaria, Romania, the Baltics and the East Adriatic countries. • Our developed markets include the entire North America region, the Europe region excluding the countries included in the emerging markets definition, and Australia, New Zealand and Japan from the AMEA region. Operating Segments Our operations and management structure are organized into four operating segments: • Latin America • AMEA • Europe • North America We manage our operations by region to leverage regional operating scale, manage different and changing business environments more effectively and pursue growth opportunities as they arise across our key markets. Our regional management teams have responsibility for the business, product categories and financial results in the regions. We use segment operating income to evaluate segment performance and allocate resources. We believe it is appropriate to disclose this measure to help investors analyze segment performance and trends. For a definition and reconciliation of segment operating income to consolidated pre-tax earnings as well as other information on our segments, see Note 18, Segment Reporting. 4 Our segment net revenues for each of the last three years were: Our segment operating income for each of the last three years was: Please see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for items affecting the comparability of results and a review of our operating results. Product Categories Our brands span five product categories: • Biscuits (including cookies, crackers and salted snacks) • Chocolate • Gum & candy • Beverages • Cheese & grocery During 2020, our segments contributed to our net revenues in the following product categories: Within our product categories, classes of products that contributed 10% or more to consolidated net revenues were: 5 Seasonality Demand for our products is generally balanced over the second and third quarters of the year and increases in the first and fourth quarters primarily because of holidays and other seasonal events. Depending on the timing of Easter, the holiday sales may shift between and affect net revenue in the first and second quarter. Customers We generally sell our products to supermarket chains, wholesalers, supercenters, club stores, mass merchandisers, distributors, convenience stores, gasoline stations, drug stores, value stores and other retail food outlets. No single customer accounted for 10% or more of our net revenues from continuing operations in 2020. Our five largest customers accounted for 17.5% and our ten largest customers accounted for 24.0% of net revenues from continuing operations in 2020. For a discussion of long-term demographics, consumer trends and demand, refer to our Financial Outlook within Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Distribution and Marketing We distribute our products through direct store delivery, company-owned and satellite warehouses, distribution centers and other facilities. We use the services of independent sales offices and agents in some of our international locations. Through our global e-commerce organization and capabilities, we pursue online growth with partners in key markets around the world, including both pure e-tailers and omni-channel retailers. We continue to invest in both talent and digital capabilities. Our e-commerce channel strategies play a critical role in our ambition to be the global leader in snacking. We conduct marketing efforts through three principal sets of activities: (i) consumer marketing and advertising including digital and social media, on-air, print, outdoor and other product promotions; (ii) consumer sales incentives such as coupons and rebates; and (iii) trade promotions to support price features, displays and other merchandising of our products by our customers. Research, Development and Innovation Our innovation and new product development objectives include continuous improvement in food safety and quality, growth through new products, superior consumer satisfaction and reduced production costs. Our innovation efforts focus on anticipating consumer demands and adapting quickly to changing market trends. Mindful snacking and sustainability are a significant focus of our current research and development initiatives. Our initiatives aim to accelerate our growth and margin dollars by addressing consumer needs and market trends and leveraging scalable innovation platforms, sustainability programs and initiatives as well as breakthrough technologies. We are focusing our technical research and development resources at 12 innovation technical centers around the globe to drive growth, creativity, greater effectiveness, improved efficiency and accelerated project delivery. Competition We face competition in all aspects of our business. Competitors include large multinational as well as numerous local and regional companies. Some competitors have different profit objectives and investment time horizons than we do and therefore may approach pricing and promotional decisions differently. We compete based on product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, service, product innovation, taste, convenience, nutritional value, the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences, effectiveness of digital and other sales and marketing, routes to market and distribution networks, promotional activity and price. Growing our market share or introducing a new product requires substantial research, development, advertising and promotional expenditures. We believe these investments lead to better products and stronger brands for the consumer and support our growth and market position. Raw Materials and Packaging We purchase and use large quantities of commodities, including cocoa, dairy, wheat, palm and other vegetable oils, sugar and other sweeteners, flavoring agents and nuts. In addition, we purchase and use significant quantities of packaging materials to package our products and natural gas, fuels and electricity for our factories and warehouses. We monitor worldwide supply, commodity cost and currency trends so we can sustainably and cost-effectively secure ingredients, packaging and fuel required for production. 6 A number of external factors such as changing weather patterns and conditions, commodity market conditions, currency fluctuations and the effects of governmental agricultural or other programs affect the cost and availability of raw materials and agricultural materials used in our products. We address higher commodity costs and currency impacts primarily through hedging, higher pricing and manufacturing and overhead cost control. We use hedging techniques to limit the impact of fluctuations in the cost of our principal raw materials; however, we may not be able to fully hedge against commodity cost changes, and our hedging strategies may not protect us from increases in specific raw material costs. Due to factors noted above, the costs of our principal raw materials can fluctuate. At this time, we believe there will continue to be an adequate supply of the raw materials we use and that they will generally remain available from numerous sources. However, we continue to monitor the long-term impacts of climate change and related factors that could affect the availability or cost of raw materials, packaging and energy. For additional information on our commodity costs, refer to the Commodity Trends section within Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. For information on our ongoing sustainability efforts and programs, refer to Sustainability and Mindful Snacking below. Human Capital Resources We believe the strength of our workforce is one of the significant contributors to our success as a global company that leads with purpose. All our employees contribute to our success and are instrumental in driving strong financial performance. Attracting, developing and retaining the best talent globally with the right skills to drive our success is central to our long-term growth strategy. At the end of 2020, our workforce consisted of approximately 79,000, compared to approximately 80,000 at the end of 2019. At December 31, 2020, we had approximately 12,000 U.S. employees and approximately 67,000 employees outside the United States, with employees represented by labor unions or workers’ councils representing approximately 26% of our U.S. employees and approximately 63% of our employees outside the United States. COVID-19 Response : We have been actively responding to the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact globally. Our highest priorities continue to be the safety of our employees and working with our employees and network of suppliers and customers to help maintain the global food supply chain. For more information on our COVID-19 workplace and community response, see our COVID-19 disclosures in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Workplace Safety : The health, well-being and safety of our employees, customers and communities is our highest priority. Every day we strive to make all our employees, contractors and visitors feel safe. We foster safety leadership throughout the organization as part of our comprehensive health, safety and environment management. Through ongoing communications, capability building, defined standards and safety measures, we strive to improve our safety performance each year. Total Rewards : We are committed to equal pay for equal work, regardless of gender, race, ethnicity or other personal characteristics. To deliver on that commitment, we benchmark and set pay ranges based on market data and consider various factors such as an employee’s role and experience, job location and performance. We also regularly review our compensation practices to promote fair and equitable pay. With the support of an independent third-party expert in this field, we have conducted global total target cash (“TTC”) pay equity reviews for salaried employees comparing employees in the same pay grade within a country/area. Our last global analysis was in 2019 and encompassed 65 countries and over 32,000 employees. At the enterprise-wide level, our pay gap between male and female employees was less than 1% and decreasing through pay adjustments for employees identified during the review. In the United States, we also review TTC for salaried employees in the same pay grade by race/ethnicity (Asian, Black and Hispanic). The 2020 independent analysis found no systemic issues and no negative pay gap between non-white and white employees. To foster a stronger sense of ownership and align the interests of employees with shareholders, we grant deferred stock units to eligible non-executive employees under our stock incentive program. Furthermore, to promote overall employee health and well-being, we provide access to medical and welfare benefits and offer programs to employees that support work-life balance as well as financial, physical and mental health resources. We also provide paid maternity and paternity time off for biological and adoptive parents. 7 We continue to evolve our programs to meet our employees’ health and wellness needs, which we believe is essential to attract and retain employees. Diversity & Inclusion : We seek to create and sustain an inclusive and safe workplace for all of our employees. We want to reflect the diversity of our consumers and maximize the power and potential of our employees around the world to deliver stronger business performance. At the end of 2020, women held 38% of global management roles (defined as Associate Director and above) and 34% of executive leadership roles (defined as the management leadership team plus one level below). In September 2020, we announced our goal to double Black representation in our U.S. management team by 2024. For our U.S. leadership, Black employees held 3.2% of management roles (defined as Associate Director and above) at the end of 2020. As a global employer, we recognize and value differences and are championing diversity and inclusion (“D&I”) around the world. We are creating local and global opportunities to further racial equity and economic empowerment by expanding our D&I initiatives across three key areas: colleagues, culture and communities. These opportunities include mobilizing our consumer-facing brands and leveraging our partnerships with agencies and advertising platforms to drive change, equity and inclusion. To further reinforce our commitment to D&I, we have included specific D&I metrics as a part of our strategic scorecard within our annual incentive plan for the CEO and other senior leaders. The scorecard is used consistently across the Company at both the corporate and region level and is linked directly to the three pillars of our strategy – growth, execution and culture. Talent Management: Maintaining a robust pipeline of talent is crucial to our ongoing success and is a key aspect of succession planning efforts across the organization. Our leadership and people teams are responsible for attracting and retaining top talent by facilitating an environment where employees feel supported and encouraged in their professional and personal development. Specifically, we promote employee development by reviewing strategic positions regularly and identifying potential internal candidates to fill those roles, evaluating job skill sets to identify competency gaps and creating developmental plans to facilitate employee professional growth. We commit to investing in our employees through training and development programs, on the job experiences, coaching, as well as tuition reimbursement for a majority of our employees in the United States to promote continued professional growth. Additionally, we understand the importance of maintaining competitive compensation, benefits and appropriate training that provides growth, developmental opportunities and multiple career paths within the Company. Employee Engagement: We conduct confidential engagement surveys of our global workforce that are administered and analyzed by an independent third-party. Aggregate survey results are reviewed by executive officers and the Board of Directors. We create action plans at global, business unit and functional levels as well as for individual managers with direct reports who participate in the survey. By acting on results both at an aggregate enterprise level and a department/business/work group level, and by analyzing our scores compared to both global and internal benchmarks, we have been able to enhance our culture and improve our overall engagement levels. High impact initiatives including flexible working and proactive support to our people throughout the pandemic have been and will continue to be important drivers of engagement. We also have focused capability building initiatives on agile ways of working and streamlining decision making processes to drive engagement. We are building a winning growth culture that more effectively leverages local commercial expertise and invests in talent and key capabilities. This enables the Company to move with greater speed and agility. For additional detail on D&I, our workplace safety practices and measurements and workplace wellness, please see our 2020 Snacking Made Right report, which will be published on our website in May 2021. Sustainability and Mindful Snacking By living our purpose to empower people to snack right, we believe we can continue to have a positive impact on the lives of our consumers and the world around us. Our mindful snacking strategy aims to encourage consumers to snack with moderation through portion control offerings and labeling, and we continue to evolve our portfolio to meet consumers’ needs. We have been focused on sustainability for many years and we continue to enhance our sustainability goals and reporting. In May 2020, we issued our 2019 Snacking Made Right report, which includes expanded reporting on environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) topics and highlights our progress toward our sustainability and nutrition-related goals. We also released an ESG disclosure data sheet that outlines our alignment with the 8 Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (“SASB”) and Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (“TCFD”) reporting frameworks. We also participate in the CDP Climate and Water annual disclosure survey and continue to work to reduce our carbon and water footprints. We are committed to continue this and other related work in the areas of sustainable resources and agriculture, mindful snacking, nutrition, community partnerships and safety of our products and people. Our 2025 sustainability and mindful snacking goals include: • Minimizing food waste, end-to-end CO 2 emissions and priority water usage by 2025 • Designing all packaging to be recyclable by 2025 to further reduce our environmental footprint • Scaling our Cocoa Life sustainability program so that by 2025, Cocoa Life will produce 100% of the cocoa volume we require for our chocolate brands • Growing portion control products to 20 percent of snacks net revenue by 2025 • Including portion amounts and mindful snacking information on all packages globally by 2025 The Governance, Membership and Public Affairs Committee of our Board of Directors is responsible for overseeing our sustainable snacking and mindful snacking strategies. Our goals are part of our strategic planning process, and therefore, progress and key activities are regularly reported to the Board of Directors and the business leadership teams. Climate change, CO 2 emissions, energy, well-being and other sustainability matters are key focus areas in our strategy. We have been recognized for our ongoing economic, environmental and social contributions. Each year since we created Mondelēz International in 2012 we have been listed on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (“DJSI”) – World and North American Indices. The DJSI selects the top 10% of global companies and top 20% of North American companies based on an extensive review of financial and sustainability programs within each industry. We are at the 97th percentile of our industry according to the latest DJSI report. Intellectual Property Our intellectual property rights (including trademarks, patents, copyrights, registered designs, proprietary trade secrets, recipes, technology and know-how) are material to our business. We own numerous trademarks and patents in many countries around the world. Depending on the country, trademarks remain valid for as long as they are in use or their registration status is maintained. Trademark registrations generally are renewable for fixed terms. We also have patents for a number of current and potential products. Our patents cover inventions ranging from packaging techniques to processes relating to specific products and to the products themselves. Our issued patents extend for varying periods according to the date of patent application filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. The actual protection afforded by a patent, which can vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage as determined by the patent office or courts in the country, and the availability of legal remedies in the country. While our patent portfolio is material to our business, the loss of one patent or a group of related patents would not have a material adverse effect on our business. From time to time, we grant third parties licenses to use one or more of our trademarks, patents and/or proprietary trade secrets in connection with the manufacture, sale or distribution of third-party products. Similarly, we sell some products under brands, patents and/or proprietary trade secrets we license from third parties. In our agreement with Kraft Foods Group, Inc. (which is now part of The Kraft Heinz Company), we each granted the other party various licenses to use certain of our and their respective intellectual property rights in named jurisdictions following the spin-off of our North American grocery business. Regulation Our food products and ingredients are subject to local, national and multinational regulations related to labeling, health and nutrition claims, packaging, pricing, marketing and advertising, data privacy and related areas. In addition, various jurisdictions regulate our operations by licensing and inspecting our manufacturing plants and facilities, enforcing standards for select food products, grading food products, and regulating trade practices related to the sale and pricing of our food products. Many of the food commodities we use in our operations are subject to government agricultural policy and intervention. These policies have substantial effects on prices and supplies and 9 are subject to periodic governmental and administrative review. In addition, increased attention to environmental and social issues in industry supply chains has led to developing different types of regulation in many countries. The lack of a harmonized approach can lead to uneven scrutiny or enforcement, which can impact our operations. Examples of laws and regulations that affect our business include workplace safety regulations; selective food taxes; labeling requirements such as front-of-pack labeling based on nutrient profiles; sales or media and marketing restrictions such as those on promotions or advertising products with specified nutrient profiles on certain channels or platforms or during certain hours of the day; sanctions on sales or sourcing of raw materials; potential withdrawal of cross-border trade concessions as retaliation or imposition of new border barriers for other reasons; changes in the corporate tax policies of the United States and other countries; and packaging taxes. In addition, at least 25 countries in the European Union have implemented extended producer responsibility (“EPR”) policies as part of national packaging waste policies that make manufacturers responsible for the cost of recycling food and beverage packaging after consumers use it. These range from mandatory regulations to voluntary agreements between government and industry to voluntary industry initiatives. EPR policies are also being contemplated in other jurisdictions around the world, including certain states in the United States. Throughout the countries in which we do business, we are subject to local, national and multinational environmental laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. We have programs across our business units designed to meet applicable environmental compliance requirements. In the United States, the laws and regulations include the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act. We are also subject to legislation designed to reduce emissions from greenhouse gases, and many countries are considering introducing carbon taxes that could increase our production costs or those of our suppliers. We continue to monitor developments in laws and regulations. Also refer to Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies – Currency Translation and Highly Inflationary Accounting, for additional information on government regulations and currency-related impacts on our operations in the United Kingdom, Argentina and other countries. 10 Information about our Executive Officers The following are our executive officers as of February 5, 2021: Name Age Title Dirk Van de Put 60 Chief Executive Officer Luca Zaramella 51 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Paulette Alviti 50 Executive Vice President and Chief People Officer Maurizio Brusadelli 52 Executive Vice President and President, Asia Pacific, Middle East and Africa Vinzenz P. Gruber 55 Executive Vice President and President, Europe Robin S. Hargrove 55 Executive Vice President, Research, Development and Quality Sandra MacQuillan 54 Executive Vice President and Chief Supply Chain Officer Gerhard W. Pleuhs 64 Executive Vice President, Corporate & Legal Affairs and General Counsel (retiring April 2021) Laura Stein 59 Executive Vice President, General Counsel, Corporate & Legal Affairs Gustavo C. Valle 56 Executive Vice President and President, Latin America Henry Glendon (Glen) Walter IV 52 Executive Vice President and President, North America Mr. Van de Put became Chief Executive Officer and a director in November 2017 and became Chairman of the Board of Directors in April 2018. He formerly served as President and Chief Executive Officer of McCain Foods Limited, a multinational frozen food provider, from July 2011 to November 2017 and as its Chief Operating Officer from May 2010 to July 2011. Mr. Van de Put served as President and Chief Executive Officer, Global Over-the-Counter, Consumer Health Division of Novartis AG, a global healthcare company, from 2009 to 2010. Prior to that, he worked for 24 years in a variety of leadership positions for several global food and beverage providers, including Danone SA, The Coca-Cola Company and Mars, Incorporated. Mr. Zaramella became Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in August 2018. He previously served as Senior Vice President Corporate Finance, CFO Commercial and Treasurer from June 2016 to July 2018. He also served as Interim Lead Finance North America from April to November 2017. Prior to that, he served as Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller from December 2014 to August 2016 and Senior Vice President, Finance of Mondelēz Europe from October 2011 to November 2014. Mr. Zaramella joined Mondelēz International in 1996. Ms. Alviti became Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer (now Executive Vice President and Chief People Officer) in June 2018. Before joining Mondelēz International, Ms. Alviti served as Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer of Foot Locker, Inc., a leading global retailer of athletically inspired shoes and apparel, from June 2013 to May 2018. Prior to that, Ms. Alviti spent 17 years at PepsiCo, Inc., a global snack and beverage company, in various leadership roles, including Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer Asia, Middle East, Africa. Mr. Brusadelli became Executive Vice President and President, Asia Pacific in January 2016 and Executive Vice President and President, Asia Pacific, Middle East and Africa in October 2016. He previously served as President Biscuits Business, South East Asia, Japan and Sales Asia Pacific from September 2015 to December 2015, President Markets and Sales Asia Pacific from September 2014 to September 2015 and President United Kingdom, Ireland and Nordics from September 2012 to August 2014. Prior to that, Mr. Brusadelli held various positions of increasing responsibility. Mr. Brusadelli joined Mondelēz International in 1993. Mr. Gruber became Executive Vice President and President, Europe in January 2019. He previously served as President, Western Europe from October 2016 to December 2018 and President, Chocolate, Europe from August 2011 to September 2016. Mr. Gruber was formerly employed by Mondelēz International, in various capacities, from 1989 until 2000 and resumed his employment in September 2007. Mr. Hargrove became Executive Vice President, Research, Development, Quality and Innovation in April 2015 and as of January 2019 serves as Executive Vice President, Research, Development and Quality. Prior to that, he served as Senior Vice President, Research, Development & Quality for Mondelēz Europe from January 2013 to 11 March 2015. Before joining Mondelēz International, Mr. Hargrove worked at PepsiCo, Inc., a global snack and beverage company, for 19 years in a variety of leadership positions, most recently as Senior Vice President, Research and Development, Europe from December 2006 to December 2012. Ms. MacQuillan became Executive Vice President, Integrated Supply Chain (now Executive Vice President and Chief Supply Chain Officer) in June 2019. Before joining Mondelēz International, Ms. MacQuillan served as Chief Supply Chain Officer and Senior Vice President, Supply Chain, at Kimberly-Clark Corporation, a global manufacturer of personal care consumer products, from April 2015 to June 2019. Prior to that, Ms. MacQuillan spent more than 20 years at Mars, Incorporated, a global manufacturer of confectionery, pet food and other food products, in various leadership roles, including Global Vice President, Supply for Mars Global Petcare. Mr. Pleuhs became Executive Vice President and General Counsel in April 2012 and as of May 2019 serves as Executive Vice President, Corporate & Legal Affairs and General Counsel. In this role, Mr. Pleuhs oversees the legal, compliance, security, corporate and governance affairs functions within Mondelēz International. He has served in various positions of increasing responsibility since joining Mondelēz International in 1990. Mr. Pleuhs has a law degree from the University of Kiel, Germany and is licensed to practice law in Germany and admitted as house counsel in Illinois. Mr. Pleuhs will retire from Mondelēz International in April 2021. Ms. Stein became Executive Vice President, General Counsel, Corporate & Legal Affairs on January 11, 2021. Before joining Mondelēz International, Ms. Stein spent 15 years at The Clorox Company, a multinational manufacturer and marketer of consumer and professional products, most recently as Executive Vice President – General Counsel and Corporate Affairs from February 2016 to December 2020. She also served as Executive Vice President – General Counsel from February 2015 to February 2016 and as Senior Vice President – General Counsel from January 2005 to February 2015. Mr. Valle became Executive Vice President and President, Latin America in February 2020. Before joining Mondelēz International, Mr. Valle served as Chief Executive Officer of Axia Plus, LLC, a management consulting firm, from February 2018 to January 2020. Prior to that he spent more than 20 years at Groupe Danone SA, a multinational provider of packaged water, dairy and baby food products, in a variety of leadership positions, most recently as Executive Vice President, Dairy Division Worldwide, from January 2015 to January 2018, and Vice President Dairy Division Europe, from January 2014 until December 2014. Mr. Walter became Executive Vice President and President, North America in November 2017. Before joining Mondelēz International, Mr. Walter worked at The Coca-Cola Company, a global beverage company, in a variety of leadership positions, most recently as Chief Executive Officer of Coca-Cola Industries China from February 2014 to October 2017 and President and Chief Operating Officer of Cola-Cola Refreshments in North America from January 2013 to February 2014. Ethics and Governance We adopted the Mondelēz International Code of Conduct, which qualifies as a code of ethics under Item 406 of Regulation S-K. The code applies to all of our employees, including our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller, and persons performing similar functions. Our code of ethics is available free of charge on our web site at www.mondelezinternational.com/investors/corporate-governance and will be provided free of charge to any shareholder submitting a written request to: Corporate Secretary, Mondelēz International, Inc., 905 West Fulton Market, Suite 200, Chicago, IL 60607. We will disclose any waiver we grant to an executive officer or director under our code of ethics, or certain amendments to the code of ethics, on our web site at www.mondelezinternational.com/investors/corporate-governance. In addition, we adopted Corporate Governance Guidelines, charters for each of the Board’s four standing committees and the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Non-Employee Directors. All of these materials are available on our web site at www.mondelezinternational.com/investors/corporate-governance and will be provided free of charge to any shareholder requesting a copy by writing to: Corporate Secretary, Mondelēz International, Inc., 905 West Fulton Market, Suite 200, Chicago, IL 60607. 12 Available Information Our Internet address is www.mondelezinternational.com. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), are available free of charge as soon as possible after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). You can access our filings with the SEC by visiting www.sec.gov or our website: ir.mondelezinternational.com/sec-filings. The information on our web site is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or incorporated into any other filings we make with the SEC. Item 1A.