 ITEM 1. BUSINESS McCormick is a global leader in flavor. We manufacture, market and distribute spices, seasoning mixes, condiments and other flavorful products to the entire food industry–retailers, food manufacturers and foodservice businesses. We also are partners in a number of joint ventures that are involved in the manufacture and sale of flavorful products, the most significant of which is McCormick de Mexico. Our major sales, distribution and production facilities are located in North America, Europe and China. Additional facilities are based in Australia, Central America, Thailand and South Africa. On December 30, 2020, we completed the purchase of FONA International, LLC and certain of its affiliates (FONA), a privately held company. The purchase price was approximately $708 million, net of cash acquired. FONA is a leading manufacturer of clean and natural flavors providing solutions for a diverse customer base across various applications for the food, beverage and nutritional markets. The acquisition of FONA broadens our value-add offerings with products that are highly complementary to our existing portfolio. By combining the portfolios and infrastructures, we have added manufacturing capacity as well as greater scale and expect to accelerate our global flavor growth. At the time of the acquisition, annual sales of FONA were approximately $114 million. The results of FONA’s operations have been included in our financial statements as a component of our flavor solutions segment from the date of acquisition. On November 30, 2020, we completed the purchase of the parent company of Cholula Hot Sauce® (Cholula) from L Catterton. The purchase price was approximately $801 million, net of cash acquired. Cholula, a premium Mexican hot sauce brand, is a strong addition to McCormick’s global branded flavor portfolio, which broadens the Company’s offering in the high growth hot sauce category to consumers and foodservice operators and accelerates our condiment growth opportunities with a complementary authentic Mexican flavor hot sauce. At the time of the acquisition, annual sales of Cholula were approximately $96 million. The results of Cholula’s operations have been included in our financial statements as a component of our consumer and flavor solutions segments from the date of acquisition. In August 2017, we completed the acquisition of Reckitt Benckiser's Food Division (RB Foods) from Reckitt Benckiser Group plc. The purchase price was approximately $4.2 billion. The iconic brands we acquired from RB Foods included French’s® , Frank’s RedHot® and Cattlemen’s® , which are a natural strategic fit with our robust global branded flavor portfolio. We believe that these additions moved us to a leading position in the attractive U.S. Condiments category, while providing significant international growth opportunities for our consumer and flavor solutions segments. Business Segments We operate in two business segments, consumer and flavor solutions. Demand for flavor is growing globally, and across both segments we have the customer base and product breadth to participate in all types of eating occasions. Our products deliver flavor when cooking at home, dining out, purchasing a quick service meal or enjoying a snack. We offer our customers and consumers a range of products to meet the increasing demand for certain product attributes such as clean-label, organic, natural, reduced sodium, gluten-free and non-GMO (genetically modified organisms) and that extend from premium to value-priced. Consistent with market conditions in each segment, our consumer segment has a higher overall profit margin than our flavor solutions segment. In 2021, the consumer segment contributed approximately 62% of consolidated net sales and 75% of consolidated operating income, and the flavor solutions segment contributed approximately 38% of consolidated net sales and 25% of consolidated operating income. Consumer Segment. From locations around the world, our brands reach consumers in approximately 160 countries and territories. Our leading brands in the Americas include McCormick® , French’s® , Frank’s RedHot® , Lawry’s® Cholula Hot Sauce® and Club House® , as well as brands such as Gourmet Garden® and OLD BAY® . We also market authentic regional and ethnic brands such as Zatarain’s® , Stubb's® , Thai Kitchen® and Simply Asia® . In the Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) region, our major brands include the Ducros® , Schwartz® , Kamis® and Drogheria & Alimentari® brands of spices, herbs and seasonings and an extensive line of Vahiné® brand dessert items. In China, we market our products under the McCormick and DaQiao® brands. In Australia, we market our spices and 2 seasonings under the McCormick brand, our dessert products under the Aeroplane® brand, and packaged chilled herbs under the Gourmet Garden brand. Elsewhere in the Asia/Pacific region, we market our products under the McCormick brand as well as other brands. Approximately two thirds of our consumer segment sales are spices and seasonings and condiments and sauces. Within the spices and seasoning category, we are the brand leader globally and a category leader in our key markets. In the condiments and sauces category, we are one of the brand leaders globally and in the U.S. There are numerous competitive brands of spices and seasonings, and condiments and sauces in the U.S. and additional brands in international markets. Some are owned by large food manufacturers, while others are supplied by small privately-owned companies. In this competitive environment, we are leading with innovation and brand marketing, and applying our analytical tools to help customers optimize the profitability of their sales of these categories while simultaneously working to increase our sales and profit. Our customers span a variety of retailers that include grocery, mass merchandise, warehouse clubs, discount and drug stores, and e-commerce retailers served directly and indirectly through distributors or wholesalers. In addition to marketing our branded products to these customers, we are also a leading supplier of private label items, also known as store brands. In our businesses in China and India, foodservice sales are managed by and reported in our consumer segment. Flavor Solutions Segment. In our flavor solutions segment, we provide a wide range of products to multinational food manufacturers and foodservice customers. The foodservice customers are supplied with branded, packaged products both directly by us and indirectly through distributors, with the exception of our businesses in China and India, where foodservice sales are managed by and reported in our consumer segment. We supply food manufacturers and foodservice customers with customized flavor solutions, and many of these customer relationships have been active for decades. Our range of flavor solutions remains one of the broadest in the industry and includes seasoning blends, spices and herbs, condiments, coating systems and compound flavors. In addition to a broad range of flavor solutions, our long-standing customer relationships are evidence of our effectiveness in building customer intimacy. Our customers benefit from our expertise in many areas, including sensory testing, culinary research, food safety and flavor application. Our flavor solutions segment has a number of competitors. Some tend to specialize in a particular range of products and have a limited geographic reach. Other competitors include large publicly held flavor companies that are more global in nature, but which also tend to focus on providing integrated solutions extending beyond flavor through the use of other functional and nutritional ingredients. Raw Materials The most significant raw materials used in our business are dairy products, pepper, capsicums (red peppers and paprika), onion, vanilla, garlic, and salt. Pepper and other spices and herbs are generally sourced from countries other than the United States. Other raw materials, like dairy products and onion, are primarily sourced locally, either within the United States or from our international locations. Because the raw materials are agricultural products, they are subject to fluctuations in market price and availability caused by weather, growing and harvesting conditions, market conditions, and other factors beyond our control. We respond to this volatility in a number of ways, including strategic raw material purchases, purchases of raw material for future delivery, customer price adjustments and cost savings from our Comprehensive Continuous Improvement (CCI) program. In addition, we rely on third-party transportation providers to deliver raw materials as well as our product to our customers. Reduced availability of transportation capacity due to labor shortages, primarily as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, has caused an increase in the cost of transportation for us and our suppliers. Customers Our products are sold directly to customers and also through brokers, wholesalers and distributors. In the consumer segment, products are then sold to consumers under a number of brands through a variety of retail channels, including grocery, mass merchandise, warehouse clubs, discount and drug stores, and e-commerce. In the flavor solutions segment, products are used by food and beverage manufacturers as ingredients for their finished goods and by foodservice customers as ingredients for menu items, as well as provided to their own customers for use in dine-in and take-out eating occasions, all to enhance the flavor of their foods. Customers for the flavor solutions segment include food manufacturers and the foodservice industry supplied through a variety of channels including directly and indirectly through distributors, wholesale foodservice suppliers and e-commerce. 3 We have a large number of customers for our products. Sales to one of our consumer segment customers, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., accounted for approximately 11% of consolidated sales in 2021 and 2020 and 12% of consolidated sales in 2019. Sales to one of our flavor solutions segment customers, PepsiCo, Inc., accounted for approximately 11% of consolidated sales in 2021, 2020 and 2019. In 2021, 2020 and 2019, the top three customers in our flavor solutions segment represented between 48% and 52% of our global flavor solutions sales. Trademarks, Licenses and Patents We own a number of trademark registrations. Although in the aggregate these trademarks are material to our business, the loss of any one of those trademarks, with the exception of our “McCormick,” “French’s ,” “Frank’s RedHot,” “Lawry’s,” “Zatarain’s,” “Cholula,” “Stubb's,” “Club House,” “Ducros,” “Schwartz,” “Vahiné,” "OLD BAY," "Simply Asia," "Thai Kitchen," "Kitchen Basics," “Kamis,” “Drogheria & Alimentari,” "DaQiao," and "Gourmet Garden" trademarks, would not have a material adverse effect on our business. The “Mc – McCormick” trademark is extensively used by us in connection with the sale of our food products in the U.S. and certain non-U.S. markets. The terms of the trademark registrations are as prescribed by law, and the registrations will be renewed for as long as we deem them to be useful. We have entered into a number of license agreements authorizing the use of our trademarks by affiliated and non-affiliated entities. The loss of these license agreements would not have a material adverse effect on our business. The term of the license agreements is generally two to three years or until such time as either party terminates the agreement. Those agreements with specific terms may be renewable upon agreement of the parties. We also own various patents, none of which are individually material to our business. Seasonality Due to seasonal factors inherent in our business, our sales, income and cash from operations generally are lower in the first two quarters of the fiscal year, increase in the third quarter and are significantly higher in the fourth quarter due to the holiday season. This seasonality reflects customer and consumer buying patterns, primarily in the consumer segment. Working Capital In order to meet increased demand for our consumer products during our fourth quarter, we usually build our inventories during the third quarter of the fiscal year. We generally finance working capital items (inventory and receivables) through short-term borrowings, which include the use of lines of credit and the issuance of commercial paper. For a description of our liquidity and capital resources, see note 6 of the accompanying financial statements and the “Liquidity and Financial Condition” section of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis.” Competition Each segment operates in markets around the world that are highly competitive. In this competitive environment, our growth strategies include customer engagement and product innovation based on consumer insights. Additionally, in the consumer segment, we are building brand recognition and loyalty through advertising and promotions. Additionally, in our flavor solutions segment, we are differentiated by our culinary and consumer inspired flavor development as well the breadth of our product offering and customer engagement. Governmental Regulation We are subject to numerous laws and regulations around the world that apply to our global businesses. In the United States, the safety, production, transportation, distribution, advertising, labeling and sale of many of our products and their ingredients are subject to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act; the Food Safety Modernization Act; the Federal Trade Commission Act; state consumer protection laws; competition laws, anti-corruption laws, customs and trade laws; federal, state and local workplace health and safety laws; various federal, state and local environmental protection laws; and various other federal, state and local statutes and regulations. Outside the United States, our business is subject to numerous similar statutes, laws and regulatory requirements. Human Capital We believe in the Power of People – our employees and customers across the world. Our high-performance culture is rooted in our shared values and respect for all contributions of every employee. Our key human capital objectives are to attract, retain and develop the highest quality talent. We employ various human resource programs in support of these objectives. We believe diversity, equity and inclusion are at the core of our values and strategic business priorities. Throughout our business, we champion equality, supporting parity for women and under-represented groups as we work to create ethical, safe and supportive workplaces where our employees thrive. We believe a diverse and inclusive workplace results in business growth and encourages increased innovation, retention of talent and a more engaged workforce. We have various employee ambassador groups that provide a supportive, 4 collaborative space for employees to come together to promote inclusion. Respect for human rights is fundamental to our business and its commitment to ethical business conduct. We had approximately 14,000 full-time employees worldwide as of November 30, 2021. Our operations have not been affected significantly by work stoppages, other than those associated with temporary closures of plants related to the COVID-19 pandemic in fiscal 2020 and, in the opinion of management, employee relations are good. Since the onset of COVID-19 in 2020, our employees have demonstrated resiliency, agility and engagement in support of business continuity despite the challenges that have arisen in the pandemic. We have approximately 400 employees in the United States who are covered by a collective bargaining contract. At our subsidiaries outside the U.S., approximately 2,600 employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements or similar arrangements. Through our continuous listening strategy, we measure employee engagement on an ongoing basis to solicit feedback and understand views of our employees, work environment and culture. The results from these surveys are used to implement programs and processes designed to enhance employee engagement and improve the employee experience. We are committed to the safety, health, and security of our employees. We believe a hazard-free environment is a critical enabler for the success of our business. Throughout our operations, we strive to ensure that all of our employees have access to safe workplaces that allow them to succeed in their jobs. Information about our Executive Officers In addition to the executive officers indicated in the 2022 Proxy Statement incorporated by reference in Part III, Item 10 of this Report, the other executive officer of McCormick is Lisa B. Manzone. Ms. Manzone is 57 years old and has held the position of Senior Vice President, Human Relations since June 2015. Operations Outside of the U.S. We are subject in varying degrees to certain risks typically associated with a global business, such as local economic and market conditions, exchange rate fluctuations, and restrictions on investments, royalties and dividends. In fiscal year 2021, approximately 40% of sales were from non-U.S. operations. For information on how we manage some of these risks, see the “Market Risk Sensitivity” section of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis.” Forward-Looking Information Certain statements contained in this report, including statements concerning expected performance such as those relating to net sales, gross margin, earnings, cost savings, transaction and integration expenses, special charges, acquisitions, brand marketing support, volume and product mix, income tax expense, and the impact of foreign currency rates are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These statements may be identified by the use of words such as “may,” “will,” “expect,” "should," "anticipate," "intend," “believe” and “plan.” These statements may relate to: the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, suppliers, consumers, customers, and employees; disruptions or inefficiencies in the supply chain, including any impact of COVID-19; the expected results of operations of businesses acquired by the company, including the acquisitions of Cholula and FONA; the expected impact of the inflationary cost environment, including commodity, packaging materials and transportation costs on our business; the expected impact of pricing actions on the company's results of operations and gross margins; the expected impact of factors affecting our supply chain, including transportation capacity, labor shortages, and absenteeism; the expected impact of productivity improvements, including those associated with our Comprehensive Continuous Improvement (CCI) program and global enablement initiative; expected working capital improvements; expectations regarding growth potential in various geographies and markets, including the impact from customer, channel, category, and e-commerce expansion; expected trends in net sales and earnings performance and other financial measures; the expected timing and costs of implementing our business transformation initiative, which includes the implementation of a global enterprise resource planning (ERP) system; the expected impact of accounting pronouncements; the expectations of pension and postretirement plan contributions and anticipated charges associated with those plans; the holding period and market risks associated with financial instruments; the impact of foreign exchange fluctuations; the adequacy of internally generated funds and existing sources of liquidity, such as the availability of bank financing; the anticipated sufficiency of future cash flows to enable the payments of interest and repayment of short- and long-term debt as well as quarterly dividends and the ability to issue additional debt securities; and expectations regarding purchasing shares of McCormick's common stock under the existing repurchase authorization. 5 These and other forward-looking statements are based on management’s current views and assumptions and involve risks and uncertainties that could significantly affect expected results. Results may be materially affected by factors such as: the company's ability to drive revenue growth; the company's ability to increase pricing to offset, or partially offset, inflationary pressures on the cost of our products; damage to the company's reputation or brand name; loss of brand relevance; increased private label use; product quality, labeling, or safety concerns; negative publicity about our products; actions by, and the financial condition of, competitors and customers; the longevity of mutually beneficial relationships with our large customers; the ability to identify, interpret and react to changes in consumer preference and demand; business interruptions due to natural disasters, unexpected events or public health crisis, including COVID-19; issues affecting the company's supply chain and procurement of raw materials, including fluctuations in the cost and availability of raw and packaging materials; labor shortage, turnover and labor cost increases; government regulation, and changes in legal and regulatory requirements and enforcement practices; the lack of successful acquisition and integration of new businesses; global economic and financial conditions generally, including the on-going impact of the exit of the United Kingdom (U.K.) from the European Union, availability of financing, interest and inflation rates, and the imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and other similar restrictions; foreign currency fluctuations; the effects of increased level of debt service following the Cholula and FONA acquisitions as well as the effects that such increased debt service may have on the company's ability to borrow or the cost of any such additional borrowing, our credit rating, and our ability to react to certain economic and industry conditions; risks associated with the phase-out of LIBOR; impairments of indefinite-lived intangible assets; assumptions we have made regarding the investment return on retirement plan assets, and the costs associated with pension obligations; the stability of credit and capital markets; risks associated with the company's information technology systems, including the threat of data breaches and cyber-attacks; the company's inability to successfully implement our business transformation initiative; fundamental changes in tax laws; including interpretations and assumptions we have made, and guidance that may be issued, and volatility in our effective tax rate; climate change; Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) matters; infringement of intellectual property rights, and those of customers; litigation, legal and administrative proceedings; the company's inability to achieve expected and/or needed cost savings or margin improvements; negative employee relations; and other risks described herein under Part I, Item 1A "Risk Factors." Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required by law. Available Information Our principal corporate internet website address is: www.mccormickcorporation.com. We make available free of charge through our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after such documents are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). The information and other content contained on our website are not part of (or incorporated by reference in) this report or any other document we file with the SEC. The SEC maintains an internet website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding McCormick. Our website also includes our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Business Ethics Policy and charters of the Audit Committee, Compensation & Human Capital Committee, and Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee of our Board of Directors. ITEM 1A.