 ITEM 1. BUSINESS McCormick is a global leader in flavor. The company manufactures, markets and distributes spices, seasoning mixes, condiments and other flavorful products to the entire food industry–retailers, food manufacturers and foodservice businesses. We also are partners in a number of joint ventures that are involved in the manufacture and sale of flavorful products, the most significant of which is McCormick de Mexico. Our major sales, distribution and production facilities are located in North America, Europe and China. Additional facilities are based in Australia, India, Central America, Thailand and South Africa. McCormick & Company, Incorporated was formed in 1915 under Maryland law as the successor to a business established in 1889. In August 2017, we completed the acquisition of Reckitt Benckiser's Food Division ("RB Foods") from Reckitt Benckiser Group plc. The purchase price was approximately $4.21 billion, net of acquired cash of $24.3 million. The acquired market-leading brands of RB Foods include French’s® , Frank’s RedHot® and Cattlemen’s® , which are a natural strategic fit with our robust global branded flavor portfolio. We believe that these additions move us to a leading position in the attractive U.S. Condiments category and provide significant international growth opportunities for our consumer and flavor solutions segments. At the time of the acquisition, annual sales of RB Foods were approximately $570 million. The results of RB Foods’ operations have been included in our financial statements as a component of our consumer and flavor solutions segments from the date of acquisition. Business Segments We operate in two business segments, consumer and flavor solutions. Demand for flavor is growing globally, and across both segments we have the customer base and product breadth to participate in all types of eating occasions. Our products deliver flavor when cooking at home, dining out, purchasing a quick service meal or enjoying a snack. We offer our customers and consumers a range of products to meet the increasing demand for certain product attributes such as organic, reduced sodium, gluten-free and non-GMO (genetically modified organisms) and that extend from premium to value-priced. Consistent with market conditions in each segment, our consumer segment has a higher overall profit margin than our flavor solutions segment. In 2019, the consumer segment contributed approximately 61% of sales and 69% of operating income, and the flavor solutions segment contributed approximately 39% of sales and 31% of operating income. Consumer Segment. From locations around the world, our brands reach consumers in approximately 150 countries and territories. Our leading brands in the Americas include McCormick® , French’s® , Frank’s RedHot® , Lawry’s® and Club House® , as well as brands such as Gourmet Garden® and OLD BAY® . We also market authentic regional and ethnic brands such as Zatarain’s® , Stubb's® , Thai Kitchen® and Simply Asia® . In the Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) region, our major brands include the Ducros® , Schwartz® , Kamis® and Drogheria & Alimentari® brands of spices, herbs and seasonings and an extensive line of Vahiné® brand dessert items. In China, we market our products under the McCormick and DaQiao® brands. In Australia, we market our spices and seasonings under the McCormick brand, our dessert products under the Aeroplane® brand, and packaged chilled herbs under the Gourmet Garden brand. In India, we market our spices and rice products under the Kohinoor® brand. Elsewhere in the Asia/Pacific region, we market our products under the McCormick brand as well as other brands. Our customers span a variety of retailers that include grocery, mass merchandise, warehouse clubs, discount and drug stores, and e-commerce retailers served directly and indirectly through distributors or wholesalers. In addition to marketing our branded products to these customers, we are also a leading supplier of private label items, also known as store brands. Approximately half of our consumer segment sales are spices, herbs and seasonings. For these products, we are a category leader in our primary markets. There are numerous competitive brands of spices, herbs and seasonings in the U.S. and additional brands in international markets. Some are owned by large food manufacturers, while others are supplied by small privately-owned companies. In this competitive environment, we are leading with innovation and brand marketing, and applying our analytical tools to help customers optimize the profitability of their spice and seasoning sales while simultaneously working to increase our sales and profit. 2 Flavor Solutions Segment. In our flavor solutions segment, we provide a wide range of products to multinational food manufacturers and foodservice customers. The foodservice customers are supplied with branded, packaged products both directly and indirectly through distributors. We supply food manufacturers and foodservice customers with customized flavor solutions, and many of these customer relationships have been active for decades. Our range of flavor solutions remains one of the broadest in the industry and includes seasoning blends, spices and herbs, condiments, coating systems and compound flavors. In addition to a broad range of flavor solutions, our long-standing customer relationships are evidence of our effectiveness in building customer intimacy. Our customers benefit from our expertise in many areas, including sensory testing, culinary research, food safety and flavor application. Our flavor solutions segment has a number of competitors. Some tend to specialize in a particular range of products and have a limited geographic reach. Other competitors include larger publicly held flavor companies that are more global in nature, but which also tend to specialize in a narrower range of flavor solutions than McCormick. Raw Materials The most significant raw materials used in our business are dairy products, vanilla, pepper, capsicums (red peppers and paprika), garlic, onion, rice and wheat flour. Pepper and other spices and herbs are generally sourced from countries other than the United States. Other raw materials, like dairy products and onion, are primarily sourced locally, either within the United States or from our international locations. Because the raw materials are agricultural products, they are subject to fluctuations in market price and availability caused by weather, growing and harvesting conditions, market conditions, and other factors beyond our control. We respond to this volatility in a number of ways, including strategic raw material purchases, purchases of raw material for future delivery, customer price adjustments and cost savings from our Comprehensive Continuous Improvement ("CCI") program. Customers Our products are sold directly to customers and also through brokers, wholesalers and distributors. In the consumer segment, products are then sold to consumers under a number of brands through a variety of retail channels, including grocery, mass merchandise, warehouse clubs, discount and drug stores, and e-commerce. In the flavor solutions segment, products are used by food and beverage manufacturers as ingredients for their finished goods and by foodservice customers as ingredients for menu items to enhance the flavor of their foods. Customers for the flavor solutions segment include food manufacturers and the foodservice industry supplied both directly and indirectly through distributors. We have a large number of customers for our products. Sales to one of our consumer segment customers, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., accounted for approximately 11% of consolidated sales in 2019, 2018 and 2017. Sales to one of our flavor solutions segment customers, PepsiCo, Inc., accounted for approximately 10% in 2019 and 2018 and 11% of consolidated sales in 2017. In 2019, 2018 and 2017 the top three customers in our flavor solutions segment represented between 49% and 52% of our global flavor solutions sales. The dollar amount of backlog orders for our business is not material to an understanding of our business, taken as a whole. No material portion of our business is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts or subcontracts at the election of the U.S. government. Trademarks, Licenses and Patents We own a number of trademark registrations. Although in the aggregate these trademarks are material to our business, the loss of any one of those trademarks, with the exception of our “McCormick,” “French’s ,” “Frank’s RedHot,” “Lawry’s,” “Zatarain’s,” “Stubb's,” “Club House,” “Ducros,” “Schwartz,” “Vahiné,” "OLD BAY," "Simply Asia," "Thai Kitchen," "Kitchen Basics," “Kamis,” “Drogheria & Alimentari,” "DaQiao," “Kohinoor” and "Gourmet Garden" trademarks, would not have a material adverse effect on our business. The “Mc – McCormick” trademark is extensively used by us in connection with the sale of our food products in the U.S. and certain non-U.S. markets. The terms of the trademark registrations are as prescribed by law, and the registrations will be renewed for as long as we deem them to be useful. We have entered into a number of license agreements authorizing the use of our trademarks by affiliated and non-affiliated entities. The loss of these license agreements would not have a material adverse effect on our business. The term of the license agreements is generally three to five years or until such time as either party terminates the agreement. Those agreements with specific terms are renewable upon agreement of the parties. We also own various patents, none of which are individually material to our business. 3 Seasonality Due to seasonal factors inherent in our business, our sales, income and cash from operations generally are lower in the first two quarters of the fiscal year, increase in the third quarter and are significantly higher in the fourth quarter due to the holiday season. This seasonality reflects customer and consumer buying patterns, primarily in the consumer segment. Working Capital In order to meet increased demand for our consumer products during our fourth quarter, we usually build our inventories during the third quarter of the fiscal year. We generally finance working capital items (inventory and receivables) through short-term borrowings, which include the use of lines of credit and the issuance of commercial paper. For a description of our liquidity and capital resources, see note 6 of the accompanying financial statements and the “Liquidity and Financial Condition” section of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis.” Competition Each segment operates in markets around the world that are highly competitive. In this competitive environment, our growth strategies include customer intimacy and product innovation based on consumer insights. Additionally, in the consumer segment, we are building brand recognition and loyalty through advertising and promotions. Governmental Regulation We are subject to numerous laws and regulations around the world that apply to our global businesses. In the United States, the safety, production, transportation, distribution, advertising, labeling and sale of many of our products and their ingredients are subject to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act; the Food Safety Modernization Act; the Federal Trade Commission Act; state consumer protection laws; competition laws, anti-corruption laws, customs and trade laws; federal, state and local workplace health and safety laws; various federal, state and local environmental protection laws; and various other federal, state and local statutes and regulations. Outside the United States, our business is subject to numerous similar statutes, laws and regulatory requirements. Environmental Regulations The cost of compliance with federal, state and local provisions related to protection of the environment has had no material effect on our business. There were no material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities in fiscal year 2019, and there are no material expenditures planned for such purposes in fiscal year 2020. Employees We had approximately 12,400 full-time employees worldwide as of November 30, 2019. Our operations have not been affected significantly by work stoppages and, in the opinion of management, employee relations are good. We have approximately 300 employees covered by a collective bargaining contract in the United States. At our foreign subsidiaries, approximately 2,400 employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements or similar arrangements. Information about our Executive Officers In addition to the executive officers described in the 2020 Proxy Statement incorporated by reference in Part III, Item 10 of this Report, the following individuals are also executive officers of McCormick: Lisa B. Manzone and Nneka L. Rimmer. Ms. Manzone is 55 years old and, during the last five years, has held the following positions with McCormick: June 2015 to present–Senior Vice President, Human Relations; January 2015 to June 2015–Vice President Global Human Relations; January 2013 to January 2015–Vice President Compensation and Benefits. Ms. Rimmer is 48 years old and, during the last five years, has held the following positions with McCormick: February 2019 to present–Senior Vice President, Business Transformation; August 2017 to February 2019–Senior Vice President, Strategy and Global Enablement; April 2015 to August 2017–Senior Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Development. Before joining McCormick in April 2015, Ms. Rimmer was Partner and Managing Director with the Boston Consulting Group where she had 13 years of experience designing, executing and leveraging successful large-scale transformational initiatives, working with large global consumer goods corporations. Foreign Operations We are subject in varying degrees to certain risks typically associated with a global business, such as local economic and market conditions, exchange rate fluctuations, and restrictions on investments, royalties and dividends. In fiscal year 2019, approximately 40% of sales were from non-U.S. operations. For information on how 4 we manage some of these risks, see the “Market Risk Sensitivity” section of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis.” Forward-Looking Information Certain statements contained in this report, including statements concerning expected performance such as those relating to net sales, earnings, cost savings, special charges, acquisitions, brand marketing support, volume and product mix, and income tax expense are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements may be identified by the use of words such as “may,” “will,” “expect,” "should," "anticipate," "intend," “believe” and “plan.” These statements may relate to: the expected results of operations of businesses acquired by the company, including the acquisition of RB Foods; the expected impact of raw material costs and pricing actions on the company's results of operations and gross margins; the expected impact of productivity improvements, including those associated with our Comprehensive Continuous Improvement (CCI) program and global enablement initiative; expected working capital improvements; expectations regarding growth potential in various geographies and markets, including the impact from customer, channel, category, and e-commerce expansion; expected trends in net sales and earnings performance and other financial measures; the expected timing and costs of implementing our business transformation initiative, which includes the implementation of a global enterprise resource planning (ERP) system; the expected impact of accounting pronouncements; the expected impact of the U.S. Tax Act enacted in December 2017; the expectations of pension and postretirement plan contributions and anticipated charges associated with those plans; the holding period and market risks associated with financial instruments; the impact of foreign exchange fluctuations; the adequacy of internally generated funds and existing sources of liquidity, such as the availability of bank financing; the anticipated sufficiency of future cash flows to enable the payments of interest and repayment of short- and long-term debt as well as quarterly dividends and the ability to issue additional debt or equity securities; and expectations regarding purchasing shares of McCormick's common stock under the existing repurchase authorizations. These and other forward-looking statements are based on management’s current views and assumptions and involve risks and uncertainties that could significantly affect expected results. Results may be materially affected by factors such as: damage to the company's reputation or brand name; loss of brand relevance; increased private label use; product quality, labeling, or safety concerns; negative publicity about our products; actions by, and the financial condition of, competitors and customers; the longevity of mutually beneficial relationships with our large customers; business interruptions due to natural disasters or unexpected events; issues affecting the company's supply chain and raw materials, including fluctuations in the cost and availability of raw and packaging materials; government regulation, and changes in legal and regulatory requirements and enforcement practices; the lack of successful acquisition and integration of new businesses, including the acquisition of RB Foods; global economic and financial conditions generally, including the pending exit of the U.K. from the European Union (Brexit), availability of financing, interest and inflation rates, and the imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and other similar restrictions; foreign currency fluctuations; the effects of increased level of debt service following the RB Foods acquisition as well as the effects that such increased debt service may have on the company's ability to borrow or the cost of any such additional borrowing, our credit rating, and our ability to react to certain economic and industry conditions; assumptions we have made regarding the investment return on retirement plan assets, and the costs associated with pension obligations; the stability of credit and capital markets; risks associated with the company's information technology systems, including the threat of data breaches and cyber-attacks; the company's inability to successfully implement our business transformation initiative; fundamental changes in tax laws; including interpretations and assumptions we have made, and guidance that may be issued, regarding the U.S. Tax Act enacted on December 22, 2017 and volatility in our effective tax rate; climate change; infringement of intellectual property rights, and those of customers; litigation, legal and administrative proceedings; the company's inability to achieve expected and/or needed cost savings or margin improvements; negative employee relations; and other risks described herein under Part I, Item 1A "Risk Factors." Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required by law. Available Information Our principal corporate internet website address is: www.mccormickcorporation.com. We make available free of charge through our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after such documents are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The SEC maintains an internet website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding McCormick. Our website 5 also includes our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Business Ethics Policy and charters of the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, and Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee of our Board of Directors. ITEM 1A.