 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS ITEM 1. BUSINESS Introduction We are an international producer and marketer of beer, wine, and spirits with operations in the U.S., Mexico, New Zealand, and Italy with powerful, consumer-connected, high-quality brands like Corona Extra, Modelo Especial, Robert Mondavi, Kim Crawford, Meiomi, and SVEDKA Vodka. In the U.S. market, we are one of the top growth contributors at retail among beverage alcohol suppliers. In the U.S. beer market, we are the third-largest beer company and leader in the high-end. We are a leading, higher-end wine and spirits company in the U.S. market. Many of our products are recognized as leaders in their respective categories. This, combined with our strong market positions, makes us a supplier of choice to many of our customers, who include wholesale distributors, retailers, and on-premise locations. Our mission is to build brands that people love because they are Worth Reaching For. It’s worth our dedication, hard work, and the bold calculated risks we take to deliver more for our consumers, trade partners, shareholders, and communities in which we live and work. It’s what has made us one of the fastest-growing large CPG companies in the U.S. at retail, and it drives our pursuit to deliver what’s next. Our key values are: • people; • customer focus; • entrepreneurship; • quality; and • integrity. The Company is a Delaware corporation incorporated on December 4, 1972, as the successor to a business founded in 1945. We have approximately 9,000 employees located primarily in the U.S. and Mexico, with our corporate headquarters located in Victor, New York. We conduct our business through entities we wholly own as well as through a variety of joint ventures and other entities. Strategy Our overall strategy is to drive industry-leading growth, build unrivaled shareholder value, and shape the future of our industry by building brands that people love. We position our portfolio to benefit from the consumer-led trend toward premiumization, which we believe will continue to result in faster growth rates in the higher-end of the beer, wine, and spirits categories. To capitalize on premiumization trends, become more competitive, and grow our business, we have employed a strategy dedicated to a combination of organic growth and acquisitions, with a focus on the higher-margin, higher-growth categories of the beverage alcohol industry. Key elements of our strategy include: • leveraging our leading position in total beverage alcohol and our scale with wholesalers and retailers to expand distribution of our product portfolio; • strengthening relationships with wholesalers and retailers by providing consumer and beverage alcohol insights; • investing in brand building and innovation activities; • positioning ourselves for success with consumer-led products that identify, meet, and stay ahead of evolving consumer trends and market dynamics; • realizing operating efficiencies through expanding and enhancing production capabilities and maximizing asset utilization; and • developing employees to enhance performance in the marketplace. In the beer business, we have solidified our position in the high-end of the U.S. beer market; enhanced our margins, results of operations, and operating cash flow; and provided new avenues for growth. We have made capital investments and acquisitions to increase beer production capacity to support the growth of the business. Additionally, in an effort to more fully compete in growing sectors of PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS the high-end segment of the U.S. beer market, we have leveraged our innovation capabilities to introduce new brands that align with consumer trends. In our wine and spirits business, as part of our efforts to focus on higher-end brands, improve margins, and create operating efficiencies, we have acquired higher-margin, higher-growth wine brands and portfolios of brands, including Meiomi and Prisoner. We have strategically optimized the value of this business through the divestiture of the Canadian wine business and the anticipated completion of the transactions to divest a portion of our wine and spirits business, which include lower-margin, lower-growth products. In addition, we have added higher-end brands to our spirits portfolio through the acquisitions of Casa Noble tequila and High West craft whiskeys. We complemented our total beverage alcohol strategy in an adjacent category by making investments in Canopy, a world-leading, diversified cannabis company. These investments are consistent with our long-term strategy to identify, meet, and stay ahead of evolving consumer trends and market dynamics, and they represent a significant expansion of our strategic relationship to position Canopy as a global leader in cannabis production, branding, intellectual property, and retailing. For further information on our strategy, see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under Item 7. of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (“MD&A”). Investments, Acquisitions, and Divestitures In connection with our strategy outlined above, during Fiscal 2020 we completed the following: Transaction Date Strategic Contribution Wine and Spirits Segment Black Velvet Divestiture November 2019 Divestiture of the lower-margin Black Velvet Canadian Whisky business and the brands associated with the production facility. Nelson’s Green Brier acquisition May 2019 Portfolio of award-winning, Tennessee-based craft bourbon and whiskey products. For further information about our significant Fiscal 2020, Fiscal 2019, and Fiscal 2018 transactions, refer to (i) MD&A and (ii) Notes 2 and 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (“Notes to the Financial Statements”). Business Segments We report our operating results in four segments: (i) Beer, (ii) Wine and Spirits, (iii) Corporate Operations and Other, and (iv) Canopy. The business segments reflect how our operations are managed, how resources are allocated, how operating performance is evaluated by senior management, and the structure of our internal financial reporting. Amounts included below for the Canopy segment represent 100% of Canopy’s reported results on a two-month lag, prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and converted from Canadian dollars to U.S. dollars. Although we own less than 100% of the outstanding shares of Canopy, 100% of the Canopy results are included in the information below and subsequently eliminated in order to reconcile to our consolidated financial statements. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS We report net sales in three reportable segments, as follows: Consolidated net sales are as follows: Beer Segment We are the #1 brewer and seller of imported beer in the U.S. beer market. We are also a leader in the high-end segment of the U.S. beer market, which includes the imported, craft, and domestic super premium beer and alternative beverage alcohol categories. We sell a number of brands in the high-end categories, driven by our imported Mexican beer portfolio. We have the exclusive right to import, market, and sell these Mexican brands in all 50 states of the U.S.: Corona Brand Family Modelo Brand Family Other Import Brands ● Corona Extra ● Corona Premier ● Corona Familiar ● Corona Light ● Corona Refresca ● Corona Hard Seltzer ● Modelo Especial ● Modelo Negra ● Modelo Chelada ● Pacifico ● Victoria In the U.S., we are the leading imported beer company and have eight of the 15 top-selling imported beer brands. Modelo Especial is the best-selling imported beer, fourth best-selling beer overall, and the fastest-growing major imported beer brand in the U.S. Corona Extra is the second largest imported beer and seventh best-selling beer overall in the U.S. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Since the June 2013 acquisition of the imported beer business, we have more than tripled our production capacity in Mexico from 10 million to approximately 34 million hectoliters. Our current production capacity provides us the opportunity to further expand our leadership position in the high-end segment of the U.S. beer market by increasing our investment behind on-trend innovation. As part of these efforts, in Fiscal 2019 we successfully introduced Corona Premier, a lower-calorie, lower-carbohydrate product offering, which has become one of the top growth contributors in the high-end segment of the U.S. beer market. During Fiscal 2020, we launched Corona Refresca and in early Fiscal 2021 we launched Corona Hard Seltzer. The national launches of Corona Refresca and Corona Hard Seltzer are part of efforts to capitalize on the growth of the high-end alternative beverage alcohol category. Additionally, we are continuing efforts focused on increasing sales distribution of products in can, draft, single-serve, and larger package size formats. Expansion and construction efforts continue under our Mexico Beer Expansion Projects. Since the June 2013 acquisition of the imported beer business, we have invested approximately $4 billion for the Mexico Beer Expansion Projects, with approximately $520 million during Fiscal 2020. To align with our anticipated future growth expectations, we are targeting an additional five million hectoliters of production capacity expansion activities to be completed at the Obregon Brewery and we are exploring options to add further capacity in Mexico to meet our long-term needs. In March 2020, we sold the Ballast Point craft beer business, including a number of its associated production facilities and brewpubs. This divestiture is consistent with our strategic focus on our high-performing import portfolio and upcoming new product introductions. For additional information regarding the Ballast Point Transaction, refer to “Recent Developments” in MD&A and Note 2 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Wine and Spirits Segment We are a leading, higher-end wine and spirits company in the U.S. market, with a portfolio that includes higher-margin, higher-growth wine and spirits brands. Our wine portfolio is supported by grapes purchased from independent growers, primarily in the U.S., New Zealand, and Chile, and vineyard holdings in the U.S., New Zealand, and Italy. Our wine produced in the U.S., New Zealand, and Italy is primarily marketed in the U.S. In addition, we export our wine products to Canada and other major world markets. Our spirits offerings include SVEDKA Vodka, which is imported from Sweden and is the largest imported vodka brand in the U.S. Our higher-end spirits brands include Casa Noble tequila and High West craft whiskeys. In the U.S., we have 16 of the 100 top-selling wine brands. Some of our well-known wine and spirits brands and portfolio of brands, sold in the U.S., which comprised our Fiscal 2020 U.S. Power Brands (“Power Brands”), included: Wine Brands Wine Portfolio of Brands Spirits Brands ● 7 Moons ● Drylands ● SIMI ● Charles Smith ● Casa Noble ● Auros ● Kim Crawford ● Spoken Barrel ● Prisoner ● High West ● Champagne Palmer & Co ● Meiomi ● Robert Mondavi ● Mi CAMPO ● Cooper & Thief ● Mount Veeder ● Schrader ● Nelson’s Green Brier ● Crafters Union ● Nobilo (1) ● SVEDKA ● Cuvée Sauvage ● Ruffino ● The Real McCoy (1) See “Recent Developments” in MD&A and Note 2 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. We dedicate a large share of sales and marketing resources to our Power Brands as they represent a majority of our U.S. wine and spirits revenue and profitability, and generally hold strong positions in their respective price categories. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS We have been increasing resources in support of on-trend product innovation as we believe this is one of the key drivers of overall beverage alcohol category growth. In wine, we have launched varietal line extensions behind many of our Power Brands, such as Bourbon Barrel Aged Robert Mondavi Private Selection and Meiomi Rosé, and we have introduced newer brands like Derange, Spoken Barrel, Cooper & Thief, and Crafters Union wine in a can. In spirits, we have introduced Mi CAMPO tequila. In connection with our efforts to increase focus on higher-margin, higher-growth brands, in April 2019, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell a portion of our wine and spirits business, including approximately 30 lower-margin, lower-growth wine and spirits brands, wineries, vineyards, offices, and facilities. In December 2019, we agreed to revise and supersede the Wine and Spirits Transaction. The revisions to the transaction address competitive concerns raised by the FTC specifically related to the sparkling wine, brandy, dessert wine, and concentrate categories. As a result, the brands Cook’s California Champagne, J. Roget American Champagne, Paul Masson Grande Amber Brandy, and our concentrate business will be excluded from the Revised Wine and Spirits Transaction. The Revised Wine and Spirits Transaction is expected to close around the end of first quarter of fiscal 2021, and is subject to required regulatory clearances and governmental review and approval. Additionally, in a separate, but related, transaction, we agreed that upon execution and delivery of a definitive agreement for the Revised Wine and Spirits Transaction, we would enter into the Nobilo Wine Transaction. The Nobilo Wine Transaction is expected to close by the end of second quarter of fiscal 2021 and is subject to FTC and New Zealand regulatory review and approval. Completion of the Nobilo Transaction is also conditioned on completion of the Revised Wine and Spirits Transaction. We are pursuing other opportunities to divest the Paul Masson Grande Amber Brandy brand and concentrate business excluded from the Revised Wine and Spirits Transaction to companies with more aligned business strategies. For further information about these transactions, refer to “Recent Developments” in MD&A and Note 2 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Corporate Operations and Other The Corporate Operations and Other segment includes traditional corporate-related items including costs of executive management, corporate development, corporate finance, corporate growth and strategy, human resources, internal audit, investor relations, legal, public relations, and information technology, as well as our investments made through our corporate venture capital function. Further information regarding net sales and operating income (loss) of each of our business segments and information regarding geographic areas is set forth in Note 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Marketing and Distribution To focus on their respective product categories, build brand equity, and increase sales, our segments employ full-time, in-house marketing, sales, and customer service functions. These functions engage in a range of marketing activities and strategies, including market research, consumer and trade advertising, price promotions, point-of-sale materials, event sponsorship, on-premise promotions, and public relations. Where opportunities exist, particularly with national accounts in the U.S., we leverage our sales and marketing skills across the organization. In the U.S., our products are primarily distributed by wholesale distributors, with generally separate distribution networks utilized for (i) our beer portfolio and (ii) our wine and spirits portfolio, as well as state alcohol beverage control agencies. As is the case with all other beverage alcohol companies, products sold through these agencies are subject to obtaining and maintaining listings to sell our products in that agency’s state. State governments can affect prices paid by consumers of our products PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS through the imposition of taxes or, in states in which the government acts as the distributor of our products through an alcohol beverage control agency, by directly setting the retail prices. Trademarks and Distribution Agreements Trademarks are an important aspect of our business. We sell products under a number of trademarks, which we own or use under license. Throughout our segments, we also have various licenses and distribution agreements for the sale, or the production and sale, of our products, and products of third parties. These licenses and distribution agreements have varying terms and durations. Within the Beer segment, we have an exclusive sub-license to use trademarks related to our Mexican beer brands in the U.S. This sub-license agreement is perpetual. Prior to our June 2013 acquisition of the imported beer business, Crown Imports had exclusive importation agreements with the suppliers of certain imported beer products and had an exclusive renewable sub-license to use certain trademarks related to the imported beer brands in the U.S. Competition The beverage alcohol industry is highly competitive. We compete on the basis of quality, price, brand recognition, and distribution strength. Our beverage alcohol products compete with other alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages for consumer purchases, as well as shelf space in retail stores, restaurant presence, and wholesaler attention. We compete with numerous multinational producers and distributors of beverage alcohol products, some of which have greater resources than we do. Our principal competitors include: Beer Anheuser-Busch InBev, Molson Coors, Heineken, The Boston Beer Company, Mark Anthony Wine E. & J. Gallo Winery, The Wine Group, Trinchero Family Estates, Treasury Wine Estates, Ste. Michelle Wine Estates, Deutsch Family Wine & Spirits Spirits Diageo, Beam Suntory, Brown-Forman, Sazerac Company, Pernod Ricard The Canopy Equity Method Investment makes up the Canopy segment. Canopy operates in the recreational and medicinal cannabis market and they compete with numerous producers and distributors of cannabis products. Canopy’s principal competitors include: Canopy Cronos Group, Aurora Cannabis, Aphria, Tilray Production Our current production capacity in Mexico at our Nava and Obregon breweries is approximately 34 million hectoliters. We are expanding the Obregon Brewery by an incremental five million hectoliters, and based on our anticipated future growth expectations, we intend to expand our production capacity in Mexico to approximately 44 million hectoliters in the future. Our Daleville facility, located in Roanoke, Virginia, supports our craft and specialty business in addition to our domestic innovation initiatives. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS In the U.S., we operate 17 wineries using many varieties of grapes grown principally in the Napa, Sonoma, Monterey, and San Joaquin regions of California. We also operate three wineries in New Zealand and six wineries in Italy. Grapes are crushed at most of our wineries and stored as wine until packaged for sale under our brand names or sold in bulk. The inventories of wine are usually at their highest levels during and after the crush of each year’s grape harvest and are reduced prior to the subsequent year’s crush. Wine inventories are usually at their highest levels in September through November in the U.S. and Italy, and in March through May in New Zealand. We currently operate three facilities in the U.S. for the production of our High West whiskey brand. The requirements for grains and bulk spirits used in the production of our spirits are purchased from various suppliers. Certain of our wines and spirits must be aged for multiple years. Therefore, our inventories of wines and spirits may be larger in relation to sales and total assets than in many other businesses. Sources and Availability of Production Materials The principal components in the production of our Mexican and craft beer brands include water; agricultural products, such as yeast and grains; and packaging materials, which include glass, aluminum, and cardboard. For our Mexican beer brands, packaging materials represent the largest cost component of production, with glass bottles representing the largest cost component of our packaging materials. For Fiscal 2020, the package format mix of our Mexican beer volume sold in the U.S. was as follows: The Nava and Obregon breweries receive water originating from aquifers. We believe we have adequate access to water to support the breweries’ on-going requirements, as well as future requirements after the completion of planned expansion activities. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS As part of our efforts to solidify our beer glass sourcing strategy over the long-term, we formed an equally-owned joint venture with Owens-Illinois, the world’s largest glass container manufacturer. In December 2014, the joint venture acquired a state-of-the-art glass production plant that is located adjacent to our Nava Brewery in Mexico. The glass plant currently has five operational glass furnaces which supply approximately 55% of the total annual glass bottle supply for our Mexican beer brands. We also have long-term glass supply agreements with other glass producers. The principal components in the production of our wine and spirits products are agricultural products, such as grapes and grain, and packaging materials, primarily glass. Most of our annual grape requirements are satisfied by grower purchases from each year’s harvest which normally begins in August and runs through October in the U.S. and Italy, and begins in February and runs through May in New Zealand. We receive grapes from approximately 720 independent growers in the U.S. and approximately 195 independent growers located primarily in New Zealand and Chile. We enter into purchase agreements with a majority of these growers with pricing that generally varies year-to-year and is largely based on then-current market prices. As of February 29, 2020, we owned or leased approximately 19,700 acres of land and vineyards, either fully bearing or under development, in the U.S., New Zealand, and Italy. This acreage supplies only a small percentage of our overall total grape needs for wine production. However, most of this acreage is used to supply a large portion of the grapes used for the production of certain of our higher-end wines. We continue to consider the purchase or lease of additional vineyards, and additional land for vineyard plantings, to supplement our grape supply. We believe that we have adequate sources of grape supplies to meet our sales expectations. However, when demand for certain wine products exceeds expectations, we look to source the extra requirements from the bulk wine markets around the world. The distilled spirits manufactured and imported by us require various agricultural products, neutral grain spirits, and bulk spirits, which we fulfill through purchases from various sources by contractual arrangement and through purchases on the open market. We believe that adequate supplies of the aforementioned products are available at the present time. We utilize glass and polyethylene terephthalate (“PET”) bottles and other materials such as caps, corks, capsules, labels, wine bags, and cardboard cartons in the bottling and packaging of our wine and spirits products. After grape purchases, glass bottle costs are the largest component of our cost of product sold. In the U.S., the glass bottle industry is highly concentrated with only a small number of producers. We have traditionally obtained, and continue to obtain, our glass requirements from a limited number of producers under long-term supply arrangements. Currently, one producer supplies most of our glass container requirements for our U.S. operations. We have been able to satisfy our requirements with respect to the foregoing and consider our sources of supply to be adequate at this time. Government Regulation We are subject to a range of laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate. Where we produce products, we are subject to environmental laws and regulations, and may be required to obtain environmental and alcohol beverage permits and licenses to operate our facilities. Where we market and sell products, we may be subject to laws and regulations on brand registration, packaging and labeling, distribution methods and relationships, pricing and price changes, sales promotions, advertising, and public relations. We are also subject to rules and regulations relating to changes in officers or directors, ownership, or control. We believe we are in compliance in all material respects with all applicable governmental laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate. We also believe that the cost of administration and PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS compliance with, and liability under, such laws and regulations does not have, and is not expected to have, a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Seasonality The beverage alcohol industry is subject to seasonality in each major category. As a result, in response to wholesaler and retailer demand which precedes consumer purchases, our beer sales are typically highest during the first and second quarters of our fiscal year, which correspond to the Spring and Summer periods in the U.S. Our wine and spirits Power Brand sales are typically highest during the third quarter of our fiscal year, primarily due to seasonal holiday buying. Employees As of March 31, 2020, we had approximately 9,000 employees. We may employ additional workers during the grape crushing seasons. Approximately 17% of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Collective bargaining agreements expiring within one year are minimal. We consider our employee relations generally to be good. Employee geographic data is as follows: Following the close of the anticipated Revised Wine and Spirits Transactions we are estimating a reduction of approximately 700 employees. Executive Officers of the Company Information with respect to our current executive officers is as follows: NAME AGE OFFICE OR POSITION HELD William A. Newlands 61 President and Chief Executive Officer Robert Sands 61 Executive Chairman of the Board Richard Sands 69 Executive Vice Chairman of the Board James O. Bourdeau 55 Executive Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary Garth Hankinson 52 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Robert Hanson 57 Executive Vice President and President, Wine & Spirits Division F. Paul Hetterich 57 Executive Vice President and President, Beer Division Thomas M. Kane 59 Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer Michael McGrew 46 Executive Vice President and Chief Communications and CSR Officer Mallika Monteiro 41 Executive Vice President and Chief Growth and Strategy Officer James A. Sabia, Jr. 58 Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer William A. Newlands is the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company. He has served as Chief Executive Officer of the Company and as a director since March 2019 and as President since February 2018. He served as Chief Operating Officer from January 2017 through February 2019 and as Executive Vice President of the Company from January 2015 until February 2018. From January 2016 to January 2017 he performed the role of President, Wine & Spirits Division and from January 2015 through January 2016 he performed the role of Chief Growth Officer. Mr. Newlands joined the Company in January 2015. Prior to that he served from October 2011 until August 2014 as Senior Vice President and President, North America of Beam Inc., as Senior Vice President and President, North America of Beam PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Global Spirits & Wine, Inc., from December 2010 to October 2011, and as Senior Vice President and President, USA of Beam Global Spirits & Wine, Inc. from February 2008 to December 2010. Beam Inc., a producer and seller of branded distilled spirits products, merged with a subsidiary of Suntory Holding Limited, a Japanese company, in 2014. Prior to October 2011, Beam Global Spirits & Wine, Inc. was the spirits operating segment of Fortune Brands, Inc., which was a leading consumer products company that made and sold branded consumer products worldwide in the distilled spirits, home and security, and golf markets. Robert Sands is the Executive Chairman of the Board of the Company, having served in the role since March 2019 and as a director since January 1990. Previously, he served as Chief Executive Officer of the Company from July 2007 through February 2019. Mr. Sands also served as President from December 2002 to February 2018, as Chief Operating Officer from December 2002 to July 2007, as Group President from April 2000 through December 2002, as Chief Executive Officer, International from December 1998 through April 2000, as Executive Vice President from October 1993 through April 2000, as General Counsel from June 1986 through May 2000, and as Vice President from June 1990 through October 1993. He is the brother of Richard Sands. Richard Sands, Ph.D., is the Executive Vice Chairman of the Board of the Company, having served in the role since March 2019. He previously served as Chairman of the Board from September 1999 through February 2019. He has been employed by the Company in various capacities since 1979. He has served as a director since 1982. He served as Chief Executive Officer from October 1993 to July 2007, as Executive Vice President from 1982 to May 1986, as President from May 1986 to December 2002, and as Chief Operating Officer from May 1986 to October 1993. He is the brother of Robert Sands. James O. Bourdeau is the Executive Vice President and General Counsel of the Company, having served in the role since December 2017 and as the Company’s Secretary since April 2017. Prior to that, he served as the Company’s Senior Vice President and General Counsel, Corporate Development, having performed that role from September 2014 until December 2017. Before joining the Company in September 2014, Mr. Bourdeau was an attorney with the law firm of Nixon Peabody LLP from July 2000 through September 2014, and a partner from February 2005 through September 2014. Mr. Bourdeau was associated with another law firm from 1995 to 2000. Garth Hankinson is the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, having served in the role since January 2020. Prior to that, he served as the Company’s Senior Vice President, Corporate Development, a position he had been in since February 2016, where he was responsible for leading all of the Company’s financial planning, reporting, and analysis activities, as well as all efforts related to mergers, acquisitions, ventures investments, and strategic alliances. From October 2009 until February 2016, he served as the Vice President, Corporate Development of the Company. From October 2007 until October 2009, Mr. Hankinson served as the Vice President, Business Development for Constellation’s prior Canadian business, Constellation Brands Canada, Inc., which was a Canadian subsidiary of the Company during that time. From March 2004 until October 2007, he served as the Director of Corporate Development. Robert Hanson is the Executive Vice President and President, Wine & Spirits Division of the Company, having served in the role since June 2019. Prior to that, he served as Chief Executive Officer of John Hardy Global Limited, a luxury jewelry brand, since August 2014. He served as Chief Executive Officer and a Director of American Eagle Outfitters, Inc., a leading global specialty retailer of clothing, accessories and personal care products from January 2012 to January 2014. He served Levi Strauss & Co. from 1988 to 2011 in a variety of important leadership roles across multiple brands where he led cross-functional teams, including merchandising, product development, multi-channel operations, marketing and creative teams, in addition to a full support staff. Mr. Hanson’s roles at Levi’s included serving as Global President of the Levi’s Brand from 2010 to 2011; President, Levi’s Strauss Americas/North America from 2006 to 2010; President, Levi’s Brand U.S. from 2001 to 2006; and President/Vice President, Levi’s Europe/Africa/Middle East from 1998 to 2001. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS F. Paul Hetterich is the Company’s Executive Vice President and President, Beer Division as well as President of Crown Imports LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company having performed these roles since January 2016. He has been an Executive Vice President of the Company since June 2003. From January 2015 through January 2016 he performed the role of Executive Vice President, Corporate Development & Beer Operations. From June 2011 until January 2015 he served as Executive Vice President, Business Development and Corporate Strategy, from July 2009 until June 2011 he served as Executive Vice President, Business Development, Corporate Strategy and International, and from June 2003 until July 2009 he served as Executive Vice President, Business Development and Corporate Strategy. From April 2001 to June 2003 Mr. Hetterich served as the Company’s Senior Vice President, Corporate Development. Prior to that, Mr. Hetterich held several increasingly senior positions in the Company’s marketing and business development groups. Mr. Hetterich has been with the Company since 1986. Thomas M. Kane is the Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer of the Company, having served in the role since joining the Company in May 2013. Mr. Kane previously served as Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Government Relations of Armstrong World Industries, Inc., a global producer of flooring products and ceiling systems, from February 2012 to May 2013, he served as its Senior Vice President, Human Resources from August 2010 to February 2012 and served as its Chief Compliance Officer from February 2011 to February 2012. Prior to that, Mr. Kane served as Global Vice President, Human Resources for Black & Decker Power Tools, a manufacturer of power and hand tools, from 2002 to 2010. From 1999 to 2002 Mr. Kane served as Global HR leader of GE Specialty Materials, a large manufacturer of silicone products. Michael McGrew is the Executive Vice President and Chief Communications and Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”) Officer of the Company, having served in the role since April 2020. Prior to that, since January 2019, he served as Senior Vice President, Corporate Communications, as Vice President, Corporate Communications from January 2017 to January 2019, and as Vice President, Communications and Brand Public Relations for Constellation’s beer division from March 2016 to January 2017. He joined the Company in September 2014 as Senior Director, Communications and Brand Public Relations. Prior that, since 2001 Mr. McGrew served in roles of increasing responsibility with W.W. Grainger, Inc., an international provider of industrial supplies and equipment, including most recently as Senior Director, Communications. Mallika Monteiro is the Executive Vice President and Chief Growth and Strategy Officer of the Company, having served in the role since October 2019. From October 2018 to October 2019 she served as the Company's Senior Vice President and Chief Growth Officer, having joined Constellation in October 2016 as Vice President, Beer Innovation. Prior to joining Constellation, from July 2014 to September 2016, Ms. Monteiro was a Senior Marketing Director at Anheuser Busch InBev, a large multinational brewing company. Prior to joining Anheuser Busch InBev, she served in roles of increasing responsibility with Beam Suntory Inc., a producer and seller of branded distilled spirits products, including as Senior Brand Manager - Vodka, from January 2012 to June 2014, Brand Manager - Cognac from July 2009 to December 2011, and Associate Brand Manager - Jim Beam from July 2007 to June 2009. James A. Sabia, Jr. is the Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer of the Company, having served in the role since May 2018. Prior to that, Mr. Sabia was the Chief Marketing Officer of the Company’s Beer Division, having performed that role from February 2009 through May 2018. From February 2009 to June 2013, Mr. Sabia was employed by Crown Imports LLC (“Crown”), of which the Company owned a 50% interest and was the Company’s beer business during that period. Effective June 2013, the Company acquired the remaining 50% of Crown, which became a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. Mr. Sabia originally joined the Company in August 2007 as Vice President, Marketing for the Company’s spirits business, serving in that capacity until February 2009. Before that, Mr. Sabia was with Molson Coors Brewing Company, a large international brewing company, from 1990 to 2007. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Executive officers of the Company are generally chosen or elected to their positions annually and hold office until the earlier of their removal or resignation or until their successors are chosen and qualified. Company Information Our Internet website is https://www.cbrands.com. Our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, are accessible free of charge at https://www.cbrands.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy, and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, such as ourselves, that file electronically with the SEC. The Internet address of the SEC’s site is https://www.sec.gov. We have adopted a Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Executive Code of Ethics that specifically applies to our chief executive officer, our principal financial officer, and our controller, and is available on our Internet site at https://www.cbrands.com/investors. This Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Executive Code of Ethics meets the requirements as set forth in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Item 406 of Regulation S-K. We also have adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to all employees, directors, and officers, including each person who is subject to the Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Executive Code of Ethics. The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is available on our Internet website, together with our Global Code of Responsible Practices for Beverage Alcohol Advertising and Marketing at https://www.cbrands.com/story/policies. Copies of these materials are available in print to any shareholder who requests them. Shareholders should direct such requests in writing to Investor Relations Department, Constellation Brands, Inc., 207 High Point Drive, Building 100, Victor, New York 14564, or by telephoning our Investor Center at 1-888-922-2150. Our Board of Directors Corporate Governance Guidelines and the Charters of the Board’s Audit Committee, Human Resources Committee (which serves as the Board’s compensation committee) and Corporate Governance Committee (which serves as the Board’s nominating committee) are accessible on our Internet website at https://www.cbrands.com/investors. Amendments to, and waivers granted to our directors and executive officers under our codes of ethics, if any, will be posted in this area of our website. The information regarding our website and its content is for your convenience only. The content of our website is not deemed to be incorporated by reference in this report or filed with the SEC. PART I ITEM 1A.