 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS GENERAL Tyson Foods, Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively, the “Company,” “we,” “us,” “our,” “Tyson Foods” or “Tyson”) (NYSE: TSN) is one of the world’s largest food companies and a recognized leader in protein. Founded in 1935 by John W. Tyson and grown under three generations of family leadership, the Company has a broad portfolio of products and brands including Tyson®, Jimmy Dean®, Hillshire Farm®, Ball Park®, Wright®, Aidells®, ibp® and State Fair®. Tyson Foods innovates continually to make protein more sustainable, tailor food for everywhere it’s available and raise the world’s expectations for how much good food can do. Headquartered in Springdale, Arkansas, the Company had approximately 137,000 employees (“team members”) on October 2, 2021. Through our Core Values, Tyson Foods is a company of people engaged in the production of food, seeking to pursue trust and integrity, and committed to creating value for our shareholders, our customers, our team members and our communities. We strive to be honorable and operate with integrity, be faith-friendly and inclusive, serve as stewards of the resources entrusted to us and provide a safe work environment. Some of the key factors influencing our business are customer demand for our products; the ability to maintain and grow relationships with customers and introduce new and innovative products to the marketplace; accessibility of international markets; market prices for our products; the cost and availability of live cattle and hogs, raw materials and feed ingredients; availability of team members to operate our production facilities; and operating efficiencies of our facilities. We operate a fully vertically-integrated chicken production process with the majority of our production certified as no antibiotic ever (sometimes referred to as “NAE”). Our integrated operations consist of breeding stock, contract farmers, feed production, processing, further-processing, marketing and transportation of chicken and related specialty products, including animal and pet food ingredients. Through our wholly-owned subsidiary, Cobb-Vantress, Inc., we are one of the leading poultry breeding stock suppliers in the world. Investing in breeding stock research and development allows us to breed into our flocks the characteristics found to be most desirable. We also process live fed cattle and hogs and fabricate dressed beef and pork carcasses into primal and sub-primal meat cuts, case-ready beef and pork and fully-cooked meats. In addition, we derive value from specialty products such as hides and variety meats sold to further processors and others. We produce a wide range of fresh, value-added, frozen and refrigerated food products. Our products are marketed and sold primarily by our sales staff to grocery retailers, grocery wholesalers, meat distributors, warehouse club stores, military commissaries, industrial food processing companies, chain restaurants or their distributors, live markets, international export companies and domestic distributors who serve restaurants, foodservice operations such as plant and school cafeterias, convenience stores, hospitals and other vendors. Additionally, sales to the military and a portion of sales to international markets are made through independent brokers and trading companies. As part of our commitment to innovation and growth, we have a subsidiary focused on investing in companies developing breakthrough technologies, business models and products to sustainably feed a growing world population. Tyson New Ventures, LLC is used to broaden our exposure to innovative, new forms of protein and ways of sustainably producing food to complement the Company's continuing investments in innovation in our core Beef, Pork, Chicken and Prepared Foods businesses. FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF SEGMENTS We operate in four reportable segments: Beef, Pork, Chicken and Prepared Foods. International/Other primarily includes our foreign operations in Australia, China, Malaysia, Mexico, the Netherlands, South Korea and Thailand, third-party merger and integration costs and corporate overhead related to Tyson New Ventures, LLC. The contribution of each segment to net sales and operating income (loss), and the identifiable assets attributable to each segment, are set forth in Part II, Item 8, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 18: Segment Reporting. DESCRIPTION OF SEGMENTS Beef Beef includes our operations related to processing live fed cattle and fabricating dressed beef carcasses into primal and sub-primal meat cuts and case-ready products. Products are marketed domestically to food retailers, foodservice distributors, restaurant operators, hotel chains and noncommercial foodservice establishments such as schools, healthcare facilities, the military and other food processors, as well as to international export markets. This segment also includes sales from specialty products such as hides and variety meats, as well as logistics operations to move products through the supply chain. Pork Pork includes our operations related to processing live market hogs and fabricating pork carcasses into primal and sub-primal cuts and case-ready products. Products are marketed domestically to food retailers, foodservice distributors, restaurant operators, hotel chains and noncommercial foodservice establishments such as schools, healthcare facilities, the military and other food processors, as well as to international export markets. This segment also includes our live swine group, related specialty product processing activities and logistics operations to move products through the supply chain. 2 Chicken Chicken includes our domestic operations related to raising and processing live chickens into, and purchasing raw materials for fresh, frozen and value-added chicken products, as well as sales from specialty products. Our value-added chicken products primarily include breaded chicken strips, nuggets, patties and other ready-to-fix or fully cooked chicken parts. Products are marketed domestically to food retailers, foodservice distributors, restaurant operators, hotel chains and noncommercial foodservice establishments such as schools, convenience stores, healthcare facilities, the military and other food processors, as well as to international export markets. This segment also includes logistics operations to move products through our domestic supply chain and the global operations of our chicken breeding stock subsidiary. Prepared Foods Prepared Foods includes our operations related to manufacturing and marketing frozen and refrigerated food products and logistics operations to move products through the supply chain. This segment includes brands such as Jimmy Dean®, Hillshire Farm®, Ball Park®, Wright®, State Fair®, as well as artisanal brands Aidells® and Gallo Salame®. Products primarily include ready-to-eat sandwiches, sandwich components such as flame-grilled hamburgers and Philly steaks, pepperoni, bacon, breakfast sausage, turkey, lunchmeat, hot dogs, flour and corn tortilla products, appetizers, snacks, prepared meals, ethnic foods, side dishes, meat dishes, breadsticks and processed meats. Products are marketed domestically to food retailers, foodservice distributors, restaurant operators, hotel chains and noncommercial foodservice establishments such as schools, convenience stores, healthcare facilities, the military and other food processors, as well as to international export markets. RAW MATERIALS AND SOURCES OF SUPPLY Beef The primary raw materials used in our beef operations are live cattle. We do not have facilities of our own to raise cattle but employ cattle buyers located throughout cattle producing areas who visit independent feed yards and public auctions to buy live cattle on the open spot market. These buyers are trained to select high quality animals, and we continually measure their performance. We also enter into various risk-sharing and procurement arrangements with producers to secure a supply of livestock for our facilities. Although we generally expect adequate supply of live cattle in the regions we operate, there may be periods of imbalance in supply and demand. Pork The primary raw materials used in our pork operations are live hogs. The majority of our live hog supply is obtained through various procurement relationships with independent producers. We employ hog buyers who make purchase agreements of various time durations as well as purchase hogs on a daily basis, generally a few days before the animals are processed. These buyers are trained to select high quality animals, and we continually measure their performance. We believe the supply of live hogs is adequate for our present needs. Additionally, we raise a small number of weanling swine to sell to independent finishers and supply a minimal amount of market hogs and live swine for our own processing needs. Although we generally expect adequate supply of live hogs in the regions we operate, there may be periods of imbalance in supply and demand. Chicken The primary raw materials used in our domestic chicken operations are corn and soybean meal used as feed and live chickens raised primarily by independent contract farmers. Our vertically-integrated chicken process begins with the grandparent breeder flocks and ends with broilers for processing. Breeder flocks (i.e., grandparents) are raised to maturity in grandparent growing and laying farms where fertile eggs are produced. Fertile eggs are incubated at the grandparent hatchery and produce pullets (i.e., parents). Pullets are raised to 20 weeks of age, sent to breeder houses, and the resulting eggs are sent to our hatcheries. Once chicks have hatched, they are sent to broiler farms. There, contract farmers care for and raise the chicks according to our standards, with advice from our technical service personnel, until the broilers reach the desired processing weight. Adult chickens are transported to processing facilities where they are harvested and converted into finished products, which are then sent to distribution centers and delivered to customers. We operate feed mills to produce scientifically-formulated feeds. In fiscal 2021, corn, soybean meal and other feed ingredients were major production costs, representing roughly 59% of our cost of growing a live chicken domestically. In addition to feed ingredients to grow the chickens, we use cooking ingredients, packaging materials and cryogenic agents. We believe our sources of supply for these materials are adequate for our present needs, and we do not anticipate any difficulty in acquiring these materials in the future. While we produce nearly all our inventory of breeder chickens and live broilers, we also purchase ice-packed or deboned chicken to meet production and sales requirements. Prepared Foods The primary raw materials used in our prepared foods operations are commodity-based raw materials, including beef, pork, chicken, turkey, flour, vegetables, cheese, eggs, seasonings and other cooking ingredients. Some of these raw materials are provided by our other segments, while others may be purchased from numerous suppliers and manufacturers. We believe the sources of supply of raw materials are adequate for our present needs. 3 SEASONAL DEMAND Demand for beef, chicken and certain prepared foods products, such as hot dogs and smoked sausage, generally increases during the spring and summer months and generally decreases during the winter months. Pork and certain other prepared foods products, such as prepared meals, meat dishes, appetizers and breakfast sausage, generally experience increased demand during the winter months, primarily due to the holiday season, while demand generally decreases during the spring and summer months. CUSTOMERS Walmart Inc. accounted for 18.3% of our fiscal 2021 consolidated sales. Sales to Walmart Inc. were included in all of our segments. Any extended discontinuance of sales to this customer could, if not replaced, have a material impact on our operations. No other single customer or customer group represented more than 10% of fiscal 2021 consolidated sales. COMPETITION Our food products compete with those of other food producers and processors and certain prepared food manufacturers. Additionally, our food products compete in markets around the world. We seek to achieve a leading market position for our products via our principal marketing and competitive strategy, which includes: • identifying target markets for value-added products; • concentrating production, sales and marketing efforts to appeal to and enhance demand from those markets; and • utilizing our national distribution systems and customer support services. Past efforts indicate customer demand can be increased and sustained through application of our marketing strategy, as supported by our distribution systems. The principal competitive elements are price, product safety and quality, brand identification, innovation, breadth and depth of product offerings, availability of products, customer service and credit terms. FOREIGN OPERATIONS We sold products in approximately 140 countries in fiscal 2021. Major sales markets include Australia, Canada, Central America, Chile, China, the European Union, the United Kingdom, Japan, Mexico, Malaysia, the Middle East, South Korea, Taiwan and Thailand. We have the following foreign operations: • Cobb-Vantress, a chicken breeding stock subsidiary, has business interests in Argentina, Brazil, China, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, India, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Peru, the Philippines, Spain, Turkey, and the United Kingdom. • Tyson Asia-Pacific, consists of vertically-integrated chicken production operations in Thailand, multi-protein further-processing operations in Malaysia, a beef production operation in Australia, and joint venture interests in two non-consolidated poultry businesses in Malaysia. • Tyson China-Korea, with locations in China and South Korea, consists of vertically-integrated chicken production operations, multi-protein further-processing operations, and a joint venture interest in a non-consolidated chicken processing business. Tyson China also sells beef, pork, and prepared foods products imported from Tyson production facilities in the United States and other global operations. • Tyson Europe, sells chicken products throughout the United Kingdom and Europe produced from our other global operations and co-packer arrangements, and has a chicken further processing operation in the Netherlands. • Vibra Agroindustrial S.A., a joint venture in Brazil in which we have a minority interest, is a vertically-integrated chicken processing business. • Godrej Tyson Foods, a joint venture in India in which we have a minority interest, is primarily a chicken processing business. • Tyson Mexico Trading Company, a Mexican subsidiary, sells chicken products primarily from our U.S. operations and co-packer arrangements. We continue to evaluate growth opportunities in foreign locations. Additional information regarding export sales and long-lived assets located in foreign locations is set forth in Part II, Item 8, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 18: Segment Reporting. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT We conduct continuous research and development activities to improve product development, to automate manual processes in our processing facilities and grow-out operations, and to improve chicken breeding stock. With regards to our domestic food products we have two primary research and development locations, our Discovery Center in Springdale, Arkansas, and an Innovation Center located in Downers Grove, Illinois. The centers include more than 80,000 square feet of United States Department of Agriculture (“USDA”) pilot plant space, two consumer sensory and focus group areas, two packaging labs and 25 research kitchens. The centers enable us to bring new market-leading retail and foodservice products to the customer quickly and efficiently. Additionally, we have a Manufacturing Automation Center in Springdale, Arkansas, designed to grow the development of new manufacturing solutions and to enhance team member training on new technology. Further, we have research and development capabilities located in several international locations where we operate. 4 ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION AND FOOD SAFETY Environmental Regulation Our facilities for processing beef, pork, chicken, turkey and prepared foods, milling feed and housing live chickens and swine are subject to a variety of international, federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, which include provisions relating to the discharge of materials into the environment and generally provide for protection of the environment. We believe we are in substantial compliance with such applicable laws and regulations and are not aware of any violations of such laws and regulations likely to result in material penalties or material increases in compliance costs. The cost of compliance with such laws and regulations has not had a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position, and except as described below, is not anticipated to have a material adverse effect in the future. Food Safety We work to ensure our products meet high standards of food safety and quality. In addition to our own internal Food Safety and Quality Assurance oversight and review, our beef, pork, chicken, and prepared foods products are subject to inspection, primarily by the USDA and the United States Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”). We also participate in the USDA's Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points (“HACCP”) program or FDA's Hazard Analysis and Risk-Based Prevention Controls (“HARPC”) program as applicable and are subject to the Sanitation Standard Operating Procedures and the Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002. Additionally, our foreign operations are subject to various other food safety and quality assurance oversight and review. Greenhouse Gas Emissions Congress, the United States Environmental Protection Agency, some states and non-U.S. governments continue to consider various options to control greenhouse gas emissions. It is unclear at this time what options, if any, will be finalized, and whether such options would have a direct impact on the Company. Although we have not incurred significant costs or capital expenditures, due to continuing uncertainty surrounding this issue it is premature to speculate on the specific nature of impacts that imposition of greenhouse gas emission controls would have on us and whether such impacts would have a material adverse effect. Tyson closely monitors developments in this area, and voluntarily sets goals to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in accordance with the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) criteria. We continue to evaluate the plans and associated costs of achieving our greenhouse gas emission reduction goals. Sustainability We have aligned our business priorities with our sustainability strategy by empowering people, conserving natural resources and innovating smart, responsible agriculture. We strive to empower people by being a transparent people-first business that values inclusion and equal opportunity, investing in communities, fighting hunger and empowering our team. We aim to conserve natural resources by conserving water, reducing greenhouse gas emissions, minimizing manufacturing and food waste and designing and using packaging that is reusable, recyclable or compostable. Additionally, we undertake efforts to innovate smart, responsible agriculture by cultivating a food system that prioritizes sustainable agriculture in our global supply chain through land stewardship, animal welfare, education, transparency and traceability. We have also partnered with World Resources Institute to assess water risk and develop a water stewardship strategy, completed construction of Tyson Foods Center for Sustainable Broiler Research, announced our global forest protection standard following deforestation risk assessment and achieved a 7.7% reduction in water use against a 2015 baseline year. Additionally, we established sustainability governance and oversight through the Governance and Nominating Committee of our Board of Directors. This Committee advises the Board on matters relating to corporate responsibility and sustainability, including environmental, social and governance matters affecting the Company. It also oversees the Company’s key programs and oversees and reviews, at least annually, the Company’s integration of sustainability principles into our business strategy and decision making. HUMAN CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Employees and Labor Relations As of October 2, 2021, we employed approximately 137,000 team members. Approximately 120,000 team members were employed in the United States, of whom approximately 114,000 were employed at production facilities, and approximately 17,000 team members were employed in other countries, primarily in Thailand and China. For fiscal 2021, our domestic workforce experienced a 3% decrease in retention rate from fiscal 2020. Approximately 33,000 team members in the United States were subject to collective bargaining agreements with various labor unions, with approximately 8% of those team members at locations either under negotiation for contract renewal or included under agreements expiring in fiscal 2022. The remaining agreements expire over the next several years. Approximately 5,000 team members in other countries were subject to collective bargaining agreements. We believe our overall relations with our workforce are good. 5 Health and Safety We maintain a safety culture grounded on the premise of eliminating workplace incidents, risks and hazards. We created and implemented processes to help eliminate safety events by reducing their frequency and severity. We also review and monitor our safety performance closely. Our goal is to reduce Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”) recordable incidents by 10% year over year. During fiscal 2021, our recordable incident rate declined 1% compared to fiscal 2020. As an expansion of our We Care workplace safety program and continued efforts to boost the overall health and wellness of our workforce, we continue to pilot health clinics near our production facilities, giving team members and their families easier access to high-quality healthcare. In response to the global novel coronavirus pandemic (“COVID-19” or “pandemic”) and its related variants, we implemented and continue to implement various safety measures in all of our facilities. To protect our team members, their families and our communities, we require our team members in the U.S. to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19. We also expanded our medical team with the addition of a Chief Medical Officer position and created over 200 nurse and administrative support staff positions to assist our efforts to protect frontline team members during the COVID-19 pandemic while also enhancing our culture of health, safety and wellness. In addition, we partnered with third-party experts to assist in our efforts to educate our U.S. team members about COVID-19 vaccines, provide our U.S. team members, their families and members of their household access to COVID-19 vaccines and case assessment of team members and their families affected by the pandemic. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion We embrace the diversity of our team members, customers, stakeholders and consumers, including their unique backgrounds, experiences, perspectives and talents. Everyone is valued and appreciated for their distinct contributions to the growth and sustainability of our business. We strive to cultivate a culture and vision that supports diversity, equity and inclusion in our community and enhances our ability to recruit, develop and retain diverse talent at every level. In fiscal 2021, we appointed our first Chief Equity, Inclusion and Diversity Officer and established a company-wide Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Council. We worked to build a highly engaged team by improving the recruitment, retention and advancement of diverse team members year over year. In fiscal 2021, we reorganized our Business Resource Groups (or “BRGs”) and added three new BRGs: African Ancestry Alliance, Asians & Allies and LatinX. In fiscal 2021, to support organizations working to combat racial hate crimes and protect the civil and human rights of Asian American and Pacific Islanders, we committed to awarding a series of grants to several national non-profit organizations, including Asian Americans Advancing Justice, Asian Americans Advancing Justice–Chicago and the National Association of Asian American Professionals. Consistent with our commitment to diversity, we implemented a goal to have at least 80% of our candidate slates for domestic team member positions at the director level and above be diverse. In fiscal 2021, we exceeded our goal, with approximately 92% of our candidate slates for such domestic positions diverse as of October 2, 2021. As of October 2, 2021, our domestic workforce identified as approximately 39% gender diverse, approximately 32% white, approximately 28% Hispanic or LatinX, approximately 25% Black or African American, and approximately 10% Asian American and Pacific Islander. In addition, as of October 2, 2021, approximately 31% of our domestic team members in management roles identified as women and approximately 30% identified as ethnically diverse. Talent and Development Our talent strategy is focused on attracting the best talent, recognizing and rewarding their performance, while continually developing, engaging and retaining them. We focus on the team member experience, removing barriers to engagement, further modernizing the human relations process, focusing on hourly team member retention and continually improving equity and effectiveness of all talent practices. Consistent with this focus, in fiscal 2021, we conducted our first-ever worldwide engagement survey that included frontline team members for the purpose of evaluating our internal performance and how we compared to other companies in various areas. In addition, through our Upward Academy Program, we offer English as a second language, financial literacy and digital literacy training to all team members. As of October 2, 2021, the program is operating at 44 Company locations. To complement Upward Academy, we have also launched Upward Pathways, a frontline career development program that helps team members further hone professional skills and creates opportunities for our team members to advance to higher-paying, more senior-level positions within the Company through job skills training and workforce certifications at no cost. We have a goal to be the employer of choice within our markets and peer groups and strive to grow and develop the different capabilities and skills that we need for the future, while maintaining a robust pipeline of talent throughout the organization. MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION Our principal marketing objective is to be the preferred provider of beef, pork, chicken and prepared foods products for our customers and consumers. We build the Tyson®, Jimmy Dean®, Hillshire Farm®, Ball Park®, Wright®, Aidells®, ibp® and State Fair® brands while supporting strong regional and emerging brands primarily through distinctive brand and product advertising, promotion, and public relations efforts focused toward key consumer targets with specific needs. We identify growth and business opportunities through consumer and customer insights derived via leading research and analytic capabilities. We utilize our national distribution system and customer support services to achieve the leading market position for our products and brands. 6 We have the ability to produce and ship fresh, frozen and refrigerated products worldwide. Domestically, our distribution system extends to a broad network of food distributors and is supported by our owned or leased cold storage warehouses, public cold storage facilities and our transportation system. Our distribution centers accumulate fresh and frozen products so we can fill and consolidate partial-truckload orders into full truckloads, thereby decreasing shipping costs while increasing customer service. In addition, we provide our customers a wide selection of products that do not require large volume orders. Our distribution system enables us to supply large or small quantities of products to meet customer requirements anywhere in the continental United States. Internationally, we utilize both rail and truck refrigerated transportation to domestic ports, where consolidations take place to transport to foreign destinations. PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS We have filed a number of patent applications relating to our processes and products that either have been granted or are in the process of review. Because we do a significant amount of brand name and product line advertising to promote our products, we consider the protection of our trademarks to be important to our marketing efforts and have registered and applied for the registration of a number of trademarks. We also have developed non-public proprietary information regarding our production processes and other product-related matters. We utilize internal procedures and safeguards to protect the confidentiality of such information and, where appropriate, seek patent and/or other protection for the technology we utilize. INDUSTRY PRACTICES Our agreements with customers are generally short-term, primarily due to the nature of our products, industry practices and fluctuations in supply, demand and price for such products. In certain instances where we are selling further processed products to large customers, we may enter into written agreements whereby we will act as the exclusive or preferred supplier to the customer, with pricing terms that are either fixed or variable. AVAILABILITY OF SEC FILINGS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DOCUMENTS ON INTERNET WEBSITE We maintain an internet website for investors at http://ir.tyson.com. On this website, we make available, free of charge, annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, iXBRL (inline eXtensible Business Reporting Language) reports, and all amendments to any of those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with, or furnish such reports to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Also available on the website to review and print for investors are the Corporate Governance Principles, Audit Committee charter, Compensation and Leadership Development Committee charter, Governance and Nominating Committee charter, Strategy and Acquisitions Committee charter, Code of Conduct and Whistleblower Policy, and other corporate governance policies. CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS RELEVANT TO FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION FOR THE PURPOSE OF “SAFE HARBOR” PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 Certain information in this report constitutes forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, current views and estimates of our outlook for fiscal 2022, other future economic circumstances, industry conditions in domestic and international markets, our performance and financial results (e.g., debt levels, return on invested capital, value-added product growth, capital expenditures, tax rates, access to foreign markets and dividend policy). These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of factors and uncertainties that could cause our actual results and experiences to differ materially from anticipated results and expectations expressed in such forward-looking statements. We wish to caution readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 7 Among the factors that may cause actual results and experiences to differ from anticipated results and expectations expressed in such forward-looking statements are the following: (i) the COVID-19 global pandemic and associated responses thereto have had an adverse impact on our business and operations, and the extent that the COVID-19 pandemic continues to impact us will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted with confidence, including the scope, severity and duration of the pandemic, and public adoption rates of COVID-19 vaccines and their effectiveness against variants of COVID-19, including the Delta variant; (ii) the effectiveness of our financial excellence programs; (iii) access to foreign markets together with foreign economic conditions, including currency fluctuations, import/export restrictions and foreign politics; (iv) cyber incidents, security breaches or other disruptions of our information technology systems; (v) risks associated with our failure to consummate favorable acquisition transactions or integrate certain acquisitions' operations; (vi) the Tyson Limited Partnership’s ability to exercise significant control over the Company; (vii) fluctuations in the cost and availability of inputs and raw materials, such as live cattle, live swine, feed grains (including corn and soybean meal) and energy; (viii) market conditions for finished products, including competition from other global and domestic food processors, supply and pricing of competing products and alternative proteins and demand for alternative proteins; (ix) outbreak of a livestock disease (such as African swine fever (ASF), avian influenza (AI) or bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE)), which could have an adverse effect on livestock we own, the availability of livestock we purchase, consumer perception of certain protein products or our ability to access certain domestic and foreign markets; (x) changes in consumer preference and diets and our ability to identify and react to consumer trends; (xi) effectiveness of advertising and marketing programs; (xii) significant marketing plan changes by large customers or loss of one or more large customers; (xiii) our ability to leverage brand value propositions; (xiv) changes in availability and relative costs of labor and contract farmers and our ability to maintain good relationships with team members, labor unions, contract farmers and independent producers providing us livestock; (xv) issues related to food safety, including costs resulting from product recalls, regulatory compliance and any related claims or litigation; (xvi) compliance with and changes to regulations and laws (both domestic and foreign), including changes in accounting standards, tax laws, environmental laws, agricultural laws and occupational, health and safety laws; (xvii) adverse results from litigation; (xviii) risks associated with leverage, including cost increases due to rising interest rates or changes in debt ratings or outlook; (xix) impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill or indefinite life intangible assets; (xx) our participation in a multiemployer pension plan; (xxi) volatility in capital markets or interest rates; (xxii) risks associated with our commodity purchasing activities; (xxiii) the effect of, or changes in, general economic conditions; (xxiv) impacts on our operations caused by factors and forces beyond our control, such as natural disasters, fire, bioterrorism, pandemics or extreme weather; (xxv) failure to maximize or assert our intellectual property rights; (xxvi) effects related to changes in tax rates, valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, or tax laws and their interpretation; (xxvii) the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, including identification of material weaknesses; and (xxviii) those factors listed under Item 1A. Risk Factors. ITEM 1A.