 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OBJECTIVE The following discussion provides an analysis of the Company’s financial condition, cash flows and results of operations from management's perspective and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our objective is to also provide discussion of events and uncertainties known to management that are reasonably likely to cause reported financial information not to be indicative of future operating results or of future financial condition and to offer information that provides understanding of our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. DESCRIPTION OF THE COMPANY We are one of the world’s largest food companies and a recognized leader in protein. Founded in 1935 by John W. Tyson and grown under three generations of family leadership, the Company has a broad portfolio of products and brands including Tyson®, Jimmy Dean®, Hillshire Farm®, Ball Park®, Wright®, Aidells®, ibp® and State Fair®. We operate in four reportable segments: Beef, Pork, Chicken and Prepared Foods. International/Other primarily includes our foreign operations in Australia, China, Malaysia, Mexico, the Netherlands, South Korea and Thailand, third-party merger and integration costs and corporate overhead related to Tyson New Ventures, LLC. For further description of the business, refer to Part I, Item 1, Business. OVERVIEW COVID-19 We continue to monitor and respond to the evolving nature of the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact to our global business. In addition to our ongoing internal COVID-19 task force formed for the primary purposes of maintaining the health and safety of our team members, ensuring our ability to operate our processing facilities and maintaining the liquidity of our business, we have expanded our medical team with the addition of a Chief Medical Officer during fiscal 2021. We have experienced and continue to experience multiple challenges related to the pandemic. These challenges increased our operating costs during fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2021. Operationally, we experienced slowdowns and temporary idling of production facilities due to team member absenteeism and choices we made to ensure team member health and safety. Each of our segments experienced a shift in demand from foodservice to retail during 2020 and have seen varying levels of foodservice recovery and the return of volumes during fiscal 2021. The long-term impact of COVID-19 remains uncertain and will depend on future developments, including the duration and spread of the pandemic, COVID-19 variants and resurgences, and related actions taken by federal, state and local government officials to prevent and manage disease spread, all of which are uncertain and cannot be predicted. Additionally, we continue to assess the potential of more permanent impacts to our businesses. Team Members The health and safety of our team members is our top priority. To protect our team members, we implement safety measures recommended by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (“CDC”) and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”) in our facilities and coordinate with other health officials as appropriate. In addition to hiring a Chief Medical Officer, we have added 200 nurse and administrative support staff positions and developed an “always-on” testing strategy rooted in contact tracing. In August 2021, we announced all domestic team members were required to be fully vaccinated by November 1, 2021. Customers and Production Our most significant impacts from COVID-19 relate to channel shifts and lower production. We are committed to doing our best to ensure the continuity of our business and the availability of our products to customers. Our production capabilities, including our large scale and geographic proximities, allow us to adapt some of our facilities to the changing demand. In addition, our production facilities experienced varying levels of production impacts, including reduced volumes, due to the implementation of additional worker health precautions and worker absenteeism. Supply Chain Our supply chain has stayed largely intact as we have built contingency plans for redundant supply for our production facilities as well as our external suppliers. We have been able to leverage our extensive distribution network and large private transportation fleet to help mitigate the impacts of COVID-19. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience volatility in commodity inputs, which has impacted our input costs, in part due to impacts caused by COVID-19. Since we also export globally, container availability and port capacities have been among the challenges in meeting the global demand for our products. Insurance and CARES Act Although we maintain insurance policies for various risks, we do not believe most COVID-19 impacts will be covered by our policies. The Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security Act (the “CARES Act”), among other things, includes provisions relating to refundable payroll tax credits, deferral of the employer portion of social security payments, and a number of income tax provisions. The provisions related to income tax will not have a significant impact on our financial statements. 24 Overall Financial Condition We continue to proactively manage the Company and its operations through the pandemic. The major challenge we face is the availability of team members to operate our production facilities due to our production facilities experiencing varying levels of absenteeism and due to labor shortages associated with the economic impact of the pandemic. We will continue to operate our production facilities with team member health and safety as a top priority. However, we cannot predict the ultimate impact that COVID-19 will have on our short- and long-term demand at this time, as it will depend on, among other things, the severity and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic. We generated $3.8 billion of operating cash flows during fiscal 2021. At October 2, 2021, we had $4.8 billion of liquidity, which included availability under our revolving credit facility and $2.5 billion of cash and cash equivalents. We have $1.1 billion of current debt. Combined with the cash expected to be generated from the Company’s operations, we anticipate that we will maintain sufficient liquidity to operate our business, make capital expenditures, pay dividends and address other needs including our ability to meet maturing debt obligations. Fiscal year Our accounting cycle resulted in a 52-week year for both fiscal 2021 and 2019 and a 53-week year for fiscal 2020. General Sales grew 9% in fiscal 2021 over fiscal 2020 to $47.0 billion, primarily due to increased average sales prices in each of our segments, partially offset by the impact of an additional week in fiscal 2020. Fiscal 2021 operating income increased compared to fiscal 2020, as strong Beef results and the gain on the sale of our pet treats business were partially offset by a decline in operating income in the Chicken and Pork segments. In fiscal 2021, our results were impacted by $626 million of charges related to legal contingency accruals, $27 million of charges related to the relocation of a production facility in China, $17 million of production facilities fire costs, net of insurance proceeds and a $784 million gain on the sale of our pet treats business. In fiscal 2020, our results were impacted by $77 million of restructuring and related charges offset by the positive impact of the additional week. During fiscal 2021, we incurred direct incremental expenses related to COVID-19 totaling approximately $335 million, which were recorded in Cost of Sales in our Consolidated Statements of Income. During fiscal 2020, we incurred direct incremental expenses related to COVID-19 totaling approximately $540 million, of which approximately $500 million and $40 million were recorded in Cost of Sales and Selling, General and Administrative, respectively, in our Consolidated Statements of Income. These COVID-19 direct incremental expenses in fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2021 primarily included team member costs associated with worker health and availability and production facility downtime, including direct costs for personal protection equipment, production facility sanitization, COVID-19 testing and vaccinations, donations, product downgrades, rendered product, certain professional fees and $114 million of thank you bonuses to frontline team members in fiscal 2020, which was partially offset by the CARES Act credits. Due to the nature of these direct incremental COVID-19 expenses, our segments were primarily impacted based on their relative number of team members, absenteeism and the degree of production disruptions they have experienced, and thus, our Beef and Chicken segments incurred a greater proportion of the total costs. These direct incremental COVID-19 related costs exclude market related impacts that may have been driven in part by COVID-19, including such items as derivatives, deferred compensation investments and other market driven impacts to margin and demand. Other indirect costs associated with COVID-19 are not reflected in these amounts, including costs associated with raw materials, distribution and transportation, plant underutilization and reconfiguration, premiums paid to cattle producers, and pricing discounts. Market Environment According to the USDA, domestic protein production (beef, pork, chicken and turkey) was relatively flat in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020. We continue to monitor trade and tariff activity as well as COVID-19 and its potential impacts to exports and input costs across all of our segments. Additionally, all segments experienced increased operating costs in fiscal 2021. We will pursue recovery of these increased costs through pricing. The Beef segment experienced strong global demand and ample supply of market-ready cattle. The Pork segment experienced strong demand and lower hog supplies. The Chicken segment experienced strong demand relative to supply. The Prepared Foods segment experienced growth, but faced increased costs partially due to the impact of an inflationary environment and challenging labor and supply conditions during fiscal 2021. Margins Our total operating margin was 9.3% in fiscal 2021. Operating margins by segment were as follows: • Beef – 18.0% • Pork – 5.2% • Chicken – (4.6)% • Prepared Foods – 16.4% 25 Strategy Our strategy is to sustainably feed the world with the fastest growing protein brands. We intend to achieve our strategy as we: grow our business by delivering superior value to consumers and customers; deliver fuel for growth and returns through commercial, operational and financial excellence; and sustain our Company and our world for future generations. • In the second quarter of fiscal 2021, we initiated a plan to sell our pet treats business, which is included in our Prepared Foods segment. In the third quarter of fiscal 2021, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell the business for $1.2 billion in cash, subject to certain adjustments. The business had a net carrying value of approximately $411 million as of July 6, 2021, which included approximately $44 million of working capital consisting of inventory, accounts receivable and accounts payable, $17 million of property, plant and equipment and $350 million of goodwill. The transaction closed on July 6, 2021, and we recognized a gain of $784 million from the sale of this business, which is reflected in cost of sales in our Consolidated Statement of Income for fiscal 2021. • Beginning in fiscal 2022, we are launching a new productivity program, which is designed to drive a better, faster and more agile organization that is supported by a culture of continuous improvement and faster decision making. We are targeting $1 billion in productivity savings by fiscal 2024, relative to a fiscal 2021 cost baseline. The execution of this program will be supported by a program management office that will ensure delivery of key project milestones and report on savings achievements connected with the three pillars of the program. The first pillar is operational and functional excellence, which includes functional efficiency efforts in Finance, HR and Procurement focused on applying best practices to reduce costs. The second pillar is the use of new digital solutions like artificial intelligence and predictive analytics to drive efficiency in operations, supply chain planning, logistics and warehousing. The third pillar is automation, which will leverage automation and robotics technologies to automate difficult and higher turnover positions. At this time, we do not anticipate costs associated with this program to be material. 2021 – Included the following items: • $626 million pretax, or ($1.31) per diluted share, related to the recognition of legal contingency accruals. • $784 million pretax, or $1.40 per diluted share, related to the gain on the sale of our pet treats business. • $34 million pretax, or $0.07 per diluted share, from a defined benefit plan gain. • $17 million pretax, or ($0.04) per diluted share, of production facilities fire costs, net of insurance proceeds. • $27 million pretax, or ($0.06) per diluted share, related to the relocation of a production facility in China. 2020 – Included the following items: • $75 million pretax, or ($0.16) per diluted share, of restructuring and related charges. • $65 million pretax, or $0.14 per diluted share, related to the additional week in fiscal 2020. • $116 million pretax, or $0.24 per diluted share, due to gain from pension plan terminations. SUMMARY OF RESULTS 2021 vs. 2020 – • Sales Volume – Sales were negatively impacted by a decrease in sales volume across each of our segments, which accounted for a decrease of $1,190 million, due in part to the impacts of a challenging labor environment as well as the impact of an additional week in fiscal 2020. • Average Sales Price – Sales were positively impacted by higher average sales prices, which accounted for an increase of $5,599 million. The increase in average sales price was primarily attributable to favorable product mix and the pass through of increased raw material costs. • The above change in average sales price for fiscal 2021 excludes a $545 million reduction of Sales from the recognition of legal contingency accruals. 26 2020 vs. 2019 – • Sales Volume – Sales were positively impacted by an increase in sales volume, which accounted for an increase of $278 million primarily due to incremental volumes from business acquisitions as well as the impact of an additional week in fiscal 2020, partially offset by decreased volumes in each of our segments in fiscal 2020 due to lower production throughput associated with the impact of COVID-19. • Average Sales Price – Sales were positively impacted by higher average sales prices, which accounted for an increase of $502 million. The increase in average sales price was primarily attributable to favorable product mix related to robust demand in the retail channel across all of our segments and beef and pork demand remaining strong amid supply disruptions related to COVID-19, partially offset by approximately $45 million of incremental discounted sales in the Prepared Foods segment. 2021 vs. 2020 – • Cost of sales increased $2,722 million. Lower sales volume decreased cost of sales $1,041 million while higher input cost per pound increased cost of sales $3,763 million. • The $3,763 million impact of higher input cost per pound was impacted by: • Increase in live hog costs of approximately $980 million in our Pork segment. • Increase of approximately $945 million in our Chicken segment related to net increases in feed ingredient costs, growout expenses and outside meat purchases. • Increase in raw material and other input costs of approximately $520 million in our Prepared Foods segment. • Increase in freight and transportation costs of approximately $315 million. • Increase of approximately $81 million in our Chicken segment related to the recognition of legal contingency accruals. • Increase in live cattle costs of approximately $160 million in our Beef segment. • Decrease due to the recognition of a $784 million gain on the sale of our pet treats business. • Decrease of $165 million due to reduction in direct incremental expenses related to COVID-19, primarily related to the payment of $114 million in thank you bonuses during fiscal 2020. • Remaining increase in costs across all of our segments was primarily driven by net impacts on average cost per pound from mix changes, as well as, production inefficiencies, increased labor costs due in part to the impacts associated with a challenging labor environment and COVID-19 in fiscal 2021 as compared to fiscal 2020. • The $1,041 million impact of lower sales volume was primarily driven by decreased volume in each of our segments in fiscal 2021 due to lower production throughput associated with the impact of COVID-19 and a challenging labor environment as well as the impact of an additional week in fiscal 2020. 2020 vs. 2019 – • Cost of sales increased $418 million. This included a net increase of $667 million primarily related to the impact of results from acquisitions and divestitures. • For the remaining $249 million decrease, higher input cost per pound increased cost of sales $393 million, offset by lower sales volume, which decreased cost of sales $642 million. • The $393 million impact of higher input cost per pound was impacted by: • Increase across all of our segments primarily driven by net impacts on average cost per pound from mix changes as well as production inefficiencies due in part to the impact of COVID-19 in fiscal 2020. • Increase of approximately $500 million of direct incremental expenses related to COVID-19. • Increase of approximately $80 million in our Chicken segment related to net increases in feed ingredient costs, growout expenses and outside meat purchases. • Increase in raw material and other input costs of approximately $90 million as well as an increase in inventory write downs of approximately $15 million in our Prepared Foods segment. • Increase in incentive-based compensation of approximately $70 million. • Decrease in live cattle costs of approximately $530 million in our Beef segment. 27 • Decrease in live hog costs of approximately $255 million in our Pork segment. • The $642 million impact of lower sales volume, excluding the impact of acquisitions, was primarily driven by decreased sales volume in each of our segments due to lower production throughput associated with the impact of COVID-19 in the back half of fiscal 2020 as well as a reduction in live cattle processing capacity from the temporary closure of a production facility in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 as a result of a fire, partially offset by the impact of the additional week in fiscal 2020. 2021 vs. 2020 – • Decrease of $246 million in selling, general and administrative was primarily driven by: • Decrease of $161 million from the change in the impact of a cattle supplier’s misappropriation of Company funds, resulting from a $55 million gain related to the recovery of cattle inventory in the fiscal year ended October 2, 2021 as compared to a $106 million loss recognized in the fiscal year ended October 3, 2020. • Decrease of $60 million from restructuring and related charges incurred in fiscal 2020. • Decrease of $56 million in marketing, advertising and promotion expenses. • Decrease of $27 million in donations. • Decrease of $24 million in commission and brokerage fees. • Decrease of $21 million in depreciation and amortization. • Increase of $81 million in professional fees. • Increase of $30 million in technology related costs. 2020 vs. 2019 – • Increase of $124 million in selling, general and administrative was primarily driven by: • Increase of $83 million in employee costs primarily from incentive-based compensation and the impact of the extra week in fiscal 2020. • Increase of $56 million from fiscal 2019 acquisitions not owned by us for all of fiscal 2019. • Increase of $49 million from the impact of a cattle supplier’s misappropriation of Company funds. • Increase of $40 million from direct incremental expenses associated with COVID-19. • Increase of $35 million from technology related costs. • Decrease of $55 million in professional fees and merger and integration costs. • Decrease of $49 million in marketing, advertising and promotion expenses. • Decrease of $26 million in travel and entertainment expenses. 2021 / 2020 – • Cash interest expense primarily included interest expense related to our senior notes and term loans, in addition to commitment fees incurred on our revolving credit facility. The decrease in cash interest expense in fiscal 2021 was primarily due to the change in outstanding commercial paper, decrease in average amount outstanding under the term loans in fiscal 2021, redemption of the August 2021 Notes as well as the settlement of the 2020 notes during fiscal 2020. 2021 – Included $34 million from a defined benefit plan gain. 2020 – Included $116 million of gains related to pension plan terminations. 28 • Our effective income tax rate was 24.3% for fiscal 2021 compared to 22.3% for fiscal 2020. State taxes increased the effective tax rate by 3.3% and 2.9% for fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively. The non-deductible goodwill associated with the sale of our pet treats business unfavorably impacted the effective tax rate for fiscal 2021 by 1.8%, and the tax benefit from the foreign-derived intangible income deduction decreased the effective tax rate for fiscal 2021 by 1.1%. SEGMENT RESULTS We operate in four reportable segments: Beef, Pork, Chicken, and Prepared Foods. International/Other primarily includes our foreign operations in Australia, China, Malaysia, Mexico, the Netherlands, South Korea and Thailand, third-party merger and integration costs and corporate overhead related to Tyson New Ventures, LLC. Additional information regarding the geographic areas of our foreign operations is set forth in Part II, Item 8, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 18: Segment Reporting. The following table is a summary of segment sales and operating income (loss), which is how we measure segment income (loss): 2021 vs. 2020 – • Sales Volume – Sales volume was relatively flat due to strong global demand, partially offset by the impacts associated with a challenging labor environment, severe weather in the second quarter of fiscal 2021 and the additional week in fiscal 2020. • Average Sales Price – Average sales price increased as our input costs such as live cattle, labor and freight and transportation costs, increased and demand for our beef products remained strong. • Operating Income – Operating income increased due to strong demand as we continued to optimize revenues relative to live cattle supply, partially offset by production inefficiencies due to labor challenges. Additionally, operating income in fiscal 2021 was impacted by a cattle supplier's misappropriation of Company funds, which resulted in a $55 million gain related to the recovery of cattle inventory as compared to a $106 million loss recognized in fiscal 2020. 2020 vs. 2019 – • Sales Volume – Sales volume decreased primarily due to lower production throughput associated with the impact of COVID-19 during portions of fiscal 2020 and a reduction in live cattle harvest capacity as a result of a fire that caused the temporary closure of a production facility for the majority of the first quarter of fiscal 2020, partially offset by the impact of an additional week in fiscal 2020. • Average Sales Price – Average sales price increased as beef demand remained strong amid supply disruptions related to the impact of COVID-19. • Operating Income – Operating income increased primarily due to market conditions, including COVID-19 disruptions, which increased the spread between preexisting contractual agreements and the cost of fed cattle, partially offset by price reductions offered to customers, as well as production inefficiencies and direct incremental expenses related to COVID-19. Additionally, results were impacted by losses of $106 million and $57 million in fiscal years 2020 and 2019, respectively, from a cattle supplier's misappropriate of Company funds. 29 2021 vs. 2020 – • Sales Volume – Sales volume decreased despite strong global demand in fiscal 2021 primarily due to the impacts of an additional week in fiscal 2020 and the impacts of lower hog supplies and a challenging labor environment in fiscal 2021. • Average Sales Price – Average sales price increased as live hog costs increased and demand for our pork products remained strong. • Operating Income – Operating income decreased primarily due to lower hog supplies relative to industry capacity as well as production inefficiencies related to COVID-19 and a challenging labor environment, partially offset by a reduction in direct incremental expenses related to COVID-19 in fiscal 2021 as compared to fiscal 2020. Additionally, volatile market conditions resulted in net derivative losses of $90 million in fiscal 2021 and net derivative gains of $70 million in fiscal 2020, which were offset by the impacts of related physical purchase transactions. 2020 vs. 2019 – • Sales Volume – Sales volume increased primarily due to the impact of the additional week, partially offset by lower production throughput associated with COVID-19 during portions of fiscal 2020 despite strong demand for our pork products and increased domestic availability of live hogs. • Average Sales Price – Average sales price increased as pork demand remained strong amid supply disruptions related to the impact of COVID-19. • Operating Income – Operating income increased primarily due to market conditions, including COVID-19 disruptions, which increased the spread between preexisting contractual agreements and the cost of live hogs, partially offset by production inefficiencies and direct incremental expenses related to COVID-19. 2021 vs. 2020 – • Sales Volume – Sales volume decreased from the impacts associated with a decline in hatch rate, a challenging labor environment, disruptions due to severe weather in the second quarter of fiscal 2021 and an additional week in fiscal 2020. • Average Sales Price – Average sales price increased due to favorable sales mix and inflationary market conditions. The change in average sales price for fiscal 2021 excludes a $545 million reduction of Sales from the recognition of legal contingency accruals. • Operating Income (Loss) – Operating income decreased primarily due to a $626 million loss from the recognition of legal contingency accruals, $735 million of higher feed ingredient costs as compared to fiscal 2020, increased supply chain costs, $23 million of expenses related to a fire at a production facility, decline in hatch rate and disruptions due to severe weather, partially offset by favorable product mix, reduced direct incremental expense associated with COVID-19 and $65 million of net derivative gains in fiscal 2021 as compared to $50 million of net derivative losses in fiscal 2020. 2020 vs. 2019 – • Sales Volume – Sales volume was relatively flat in fiscal 2020 as the impact of the additional week and increased volumes in retail were offset by lower production throughput associated with the impact of COVID-19 and lower foodservice demand. • Average Sales Price – Average sales price decreased in fiscal 2020 primarily due to weaker chicken pricing as a result of market conditions. • Operating Income (Loss) – Operating income decreased in fiscal 2020 primarily from market conditions, unfavorable product mix, as well as production inefficiencies and direct incremental expenses related to COVID-19. Operating income was also impacted by $34 million in restructuring costs incurred in fiscal 2020. 30 2021 vs. 2020 – • Sales Volume – Sales volume decreased driven by lower production throughput primarily associated with a challenging labor and supply environment, reduced foodservice demand in the first half of fiscal 2021 and the impact of an additional week in fiscal 2020. • Average Sales Price – Average sales price increased due to favorable product mix and inflation-justified pricing. • Operating Income – Operating income increased due to the recognition of a $784 million gain on the sale of our pet treats business, lower commercial spend as well as favorable pricing and product mix. These impacts were partially offset by the impact of inflationary market conditions including a $520 million increase in raw material and other input costs during fiscal 2021, increased supply chain costs and a challenging labor environment. 2020 vs. 2019 – • Sales Volume – Sales volume decreased as growth in volume across the retail channel was offset by a reduction in the foodservice channel related to reduced demand and lower production throughput due to the impact of COVID-19, partially offset by the impact of an additional week in fiscal 2020. • Average Sales Price – Average sales price increased due to favorable product mix associated with the surge in retail demand, as well as the pass through of increased raw material costs. • Operating Income – Operating income decreased primarily due to increased operating costs, including a $105 million increase in net raw material costs and derivative losses, as well as production inefficiencies and direct incremental expenses related to COVID-19. Additionally, operating income was impacted by $28 million in restructuring costs. 2021 vs. 2020 – • Sales – Sales increased due to increased pricing from favorable product mix. • Operating Loss – Operating loss increased slightly due to a $27 million charge related to the relocation of a production facility in China, partially offset by improved results in our international operations in fiscal 2021. 2020 vs. 2019 – • Sales – Sales increased primarily from the incremental sales from the the first full year of results from the acquisitions of Keystone Foods and the Thai and European operations. • Operating Loss – Operating results improved due to lower third-party merger and integration costs partially offset by reduced profitability in our international operations primarily from the impacts of COVID-19. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Our cash needs for working capital, capital expenditures, growth opportunities, repurchases of senior notes, repayment of maturing debt, the payment of dividends and share repurchases are expected to be met with current cash on hand, cash flows provided by operating activities, or short-term borrowings. Based on our current expectations, we believe our liquidity and capital resources will be sufficient to operate our business. However, we may take advantage of opportunities to generate additional liquidity or refinance existing debt through capital market transactions. The amount, nature and timing of any capital market transactions will depend on our operating performance and other circumstances; our then-current commitments and obligations; the amount, nature and timing of our capital requirements; any limitations imposed by our current credit arrangements; and overall market conditions. 31 • Gain on disposition of business related to the sale of our pet treats business. For further description, refer to Part II, Item 8, Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 3: Acquisitions and Dispositions. • Other, net included a $34 million defined benefit plan gain in fiscal 2021 and a $112 million gain related to pension plan terminations in fiscal 2020. • Cash flows associated with changes in operating assets and liabilities: • 2021 – Decreased primarily from increased accounts receivable, accrued salaries, wages and benefits and inventories, offset by increased accounts payable, taxes payable and legal accruals. The increase in accounts receivable is largely due to the increase in sales. The increase in accrued salaries, wages and benefits is primarily due to increased incentive-based compensation. The increase in inventories is primarily due to increased livestock, raw material and grain costs. The increase in accounts payable is largely due to increased input costs as well as the timing of payments. The increase in taxes payable is driven by the timing of payments primarily related to the gain from the sale of our pet treats business in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021. The increase in legal accruals is due primarily to legal contingencies recorded during fiscal 2021. • 2020 – Increased primarily due to decreased accounts receivable, decreased inventories, increased accrued salaries, wages & benefits, and increased taxes payable, partially offset by decreased accounts payable. The changes in accounts receivable and accounts payable are largely due to the timing of payments and sales. The decrease in inventories is primarily due to decreased inventory volumes in the Prepared Foods segment. The increase in accrued salaries, wages and benefits is primarily due to increased incentive-based compensation. The increase in taxes payable is primarily related to timing of payments, in large part due to payroll tax deferrals associated with the CARES Act. • Additions to property, plant and equipment included spending for production growth, safety and animal well-being, in addition to acquiring new equipment, infrastructure replacements and upgrades to maintain competitive standing and position us for future opportunities. • Capital spending for fiscal 2022 is expected to approximate $2 billion and will include spending for capacity expansion and utilization, automation to alleviate labor challenges and brand and product innovation. • Purchases of marketable securities included funding for our deferred compensation plans. • Proceeds from sale of businesses related to the proceeds received from sale of our pet treats business in fiscal 2021 and the sale of a prepared foods business in fiscal 2020. For further description refer to Part II, Item 8, Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 3: Acquisitions and Dispositions. • Acquisition of equity investments for fiscal 2021 related to the purchase of a 49% minority interest in a Malaysian producer of feed and poultry products, and for fiscal 2020, included the purchase of a 40% interest in a vertically integrated Brazilian poultry producer and a 50% interest in a joint venture serving the worldwide fats and oils market. • Other, net for fiscal 2021 and fiscal 2020 primarily included changes in deposits for capital expenditures and for fiscal 2021, the receipt of $69 million related to split-dollar life insurance proceeds. 32 • Proceeds from issuance of debt and borrowings/payments on revolving credit facility: • 2021 – During fiscal 2021, proceeds of $585 million from issuance of debt included $500 million of proceeds from the issuance of a term loan facility due March 2023. • 2020 – On March 27, 2020, we executed a new $1.5 billion term loan facility to repay our commercial paper, repay outstanding balances under our revolving credit facility and for general liquidity purposes. • Payments on debt included: • 2021 – In February 2021, we repaid $750 million of the $1.5 billion outstanding under our revolving credit facility. On March 22, 2021, we executed a new $500 million term loan facility due March 2023. The Company used the proceeds of the new term loan, together with $250 million in cash on hand, to repay in full the remaining $750 million outstanding under the Company's existing $1.5 billion term loan facility due March 2022. On September 30, 2021, the Company used cash on hand to repay in full the $500 million term loan facility due March 2023. On July 23, 2021, we redeemed the $500 million outstanding balance of the Senior Notes due August 2021 using cash on hand. • 2020 – We extinguished the $350 million outstanding balance of our senior notes due June 2020, the $400 million outstanding balance of our senior notes due August 2020 and the $278 million outstanding balance of our senior notes due September 2020 using cash on hand. • Proceeds from issuance and repayment of short-term debt in the form of commercial paper: • 2020 – We had net repayments of $999 million to our unsecured short-term promissory notes ("commercial paper") pursuant to our commercial paper program. • Purchases of Tyson Class A common stock included: • $150 million for shares repurchased pursuant to our share repurchase program in fiscal 2020. • $67 million and $57 million for shares repurchased to fund certain obligations under our equity compensation plans in fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively. • Dividends paid during fiscal 2021 included a 6% increase to our fiscal 2020 quarterly dividend rate. Liquidity in millions Commitments Expiration Date Facility Amount Outstanding Letters of Credit (no draw downs) Amount Borrowed Amount Available at October 2, 2021 Cash and cash equivalents $ 2,507 Short-term investments — Revolving credit facility September 2026 $ 2,250 $ — $ — 2,250 Commercial Paper — Total liquidity $ 4,757 • Liquidity includes cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, and availability under our revolving credit facility, less outstanding commercial paper balance. • At October 2, 2021, we had current debt and accrued legal contingencies of $1,067 million and $567 million, respectively, which we intend to pay with cash generated from our operating activities and other existing or new liquidity sources. • The revolving credit facility supports our short-term funding needs and also serves to backstop our commercial paper program. We had no borrowings under the revolving credit facility during fiscal 2021. Under the terms of the facility, we have the option to establish incremental commitment increases of up to $500 million if certain conditions are met. • We expect net interest expense will approximate $380 million for fiscal 2022. 33 • Our ratio of short-term assets to short-term liabilities ("current ratio") was 1.6 to 1 and 1.8 to 1 at October 2, 2021, and October 3, 2020, respectively. The decrease in fiscal 2021 was primarily due to increased accounts payable, current debt and legal contingency accruals, partially offset by increased cash, accounts receivable and inventories. • At October 2, 2021, $464 million of our cash was held in the international accounts of our foreign subsidiaries. Generally, we do not rely on the foreign cash as a source of funds to support our ongoing domestic liquidity needs. We manage our worldwide cash requirements by reviewing available funds among our foreign subsidiaries and the cost effectiveness with which those funds can be accessed. We intend to repatriate excess cash (net of applicable withholding taxes) not subject to regulatory requirements and to indefinitely reinvest outside of the United States the remainder of cash held by foreign subsidiaries. We do not expect the regulatory restrictions or taxes on repatriation to have a material effect on our overall liquidity, financial condition or the results of operations for the foreseeable future. Capital Resources Credit Facility Cash flows from operating activities and cash on hand are our primary sources of liquidity for funding debt service, capital expenditures, dividends and share repurchases. We also have a revolving credit facility, with a committed capacity of $2.25 billion, to provide additional liquidity for working capital needs and to backstop our commercial paper program. At October 2, 2021, amounts available for borrowing under our revolving credit facility totaled $2.25 billion. Our revolving credit facility is funded by a syndicate of 20 banks, with commitments ranging from $35 million to $175 million per bank. Commercial Paper Program Our commercial paper program provides a low-cost source of borrowing to fund general corporate purposes including working capital requirements. The maximum borrowing capacity under the commercial paper program is $1 billion. The maturities of the notes may vary, but may not exceed 397 days from the date of issuance. As of October 2, 2021, we had no commercial paper outstanding under this program. Our ability to access commercial paper in the future may be limited or its costs increased. Capitalization To monitor our credit ratings and our capacity for long-term financing, we consider various qualitative and quantitative factors. We monitor the ratio of our net debt to EBITDA as support for our long-term financing decisions. At October 2, 2021, and October 3, 2020, the ratio of our net debt to EBITDA was 1.2x and 2.3x, respectively. Refer to Other Key Financial Measures below for an explanation and reconciliation to comparable Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP ” ) measures. Credit Ratings Revolving Credit Facility S&P's applicable rating is "BBB+." Moody's applicable rating is "Baa2." The below table outlines the fees paid on the unused portion of the facility ("Facility Fee Rate") and letter of credit fees and borrowings ("All-in Borrowing Spread") that corresponds to the applicable ratings levels from S&P and Moody's. In the event the ratings fall within different levels, the applicable rate will be based upon the higher of the two Levels or, if there is more than a one-notch split between the two Levels, then the Applicable Rate will be based upon the Level that is one Level below the higher Level. Debt Covenants Our revolving credit facility contains affirmative and negative covenants that, among other things, may limit or restrict our ability to: create liens and encumbrances; incur debt; merge, dissolve, liquidate or consolidate; make acquisitions and investments; dispose of or transfer assets; change the nature of our business; engage in certain transactions with affiliates; and enter into hedging transactions, in each case, subject to certain qualifications and exceptions. In addition, we are required to maintain a minimum interest expense coverage ratio. Our senior notes also contain affirmative and negative covenants that, among other things, may limit or restrict our ability to: create liens; engage in certain sale/leaseback transactions; and engage in certain consolidations, mergers and sales of assets. We were in compliance with all debt covenants at October 2, 2021 and expect that we will maintain compliance. 34 Pension Plans As further described in Part II, Item 8, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 16: Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits, the funded status of our defined benefit pension plans is defined as the amount the projected benefit obligation exceeds the plan assets. The funded status of the plans is an underfunded position of $215 million at the end of fiscal 2021 as compared to an underfunded position of $234 million at the end of fiscal 2020. We expect to contribute approximately $14 million of cash to our pension plans in fiscal 2022 as compared to approximately $15 million in fiscal 2021. The exact amount of cash contributions made to pension plans in any year is dependent upon a number of factors, including minimum funding requirements. As a result, the actual funding in fiscal 2022 may be different from the estimate. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements material to our financial position or results of operations. The off-balance sheet arrangements we have are guarantees of obligations related to certain outside third parties, including leases, debt and livestock grower loans, and residual value guarantees covering certain operating leases for various types of equipment. See Part II, Item 8, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 21: Commitments and Contingencies for further discussion. CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of October 2, 2021 (in millions): (1) In the event of a default on payment, acceleration of the principal payments could occur. (2) Interest payments include interest on all outstanding debt. Payments are estimated for variable rate and variable term debt based on effective interest rates at October 2, 2021, and expected payment dates. (3) Amounts include guarantees of obligations related to certain outside third parties, which consist of leases, debt and livestock grower loans, all of which are substantially collateralized by the underlying assets, as well as residual value guarantees covering certain operating leases for various types of equipment. The amounts included are the maximum potential amount of future payments. (4) For additional information regarding operating leases, refer to Part II, Item 8, Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 6: Leases. (5) Amounts include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. The purchase obligations amount included items, such as future purchase commitments for grains and livestock purchase contracts, that provide terms that meet the above criteria. For certain grain purchase commitments with a fixed quantity provision, we have assumed the future obligations under the commitment based on available commodity futures prices as published in observable active markets as of October 2, 2021. We have excluded future purchase commitments for contracts that do not meet these criteria. Purchase orders are not included in the table, as a purchase order is an authorization to purchase and is cancellable. Contracts for goods or services that contain termination clauses without penalty have also been excluded. (6) Amounts include estimated amounts to complete buildings and equipment under construction as of October 2, 2021. (7) Other long-term liabilities primarily consist of deferred compensation, deferred income, self-insurance and asset retirement obligations. Amount also consists of $134 million of payroll tax deferrals associated with the CARES Act, which we expect will be paid in fiscal 2023. We are unable to reliably estimate the amount and timing of the remaining payments beyond fiscal 2021; therefore, we have only included the total liability in the table above. We also have employee benefit obligations consisting of pensions and other postretirement benefits of $285 million that are excluded from the table above. A discussion of the Company's pension and postretirement plans, including funding matters, is included in Part II, Item 8, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 16: Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits. In addition to the amounts shown above in the table, we have unrecognized tax benefits of $135 million and related interest and penalties of $49 million at October 2, 2021, recorded in Other long-term liabilities. The potential maximum contractual obligation associated with our cash flow assistance programs at October 2, 2021, based on the estimated fair values of the livestock supplier’s net tangible assets on that date, aggregated to approximately $305 million. After analyzing residual credit risks and general market conditions, we had no allowance for these programs' estimated uncollectible receivables at October 2, 2021. 35 OTHER KEY FINANCIAL MEASURES The following are other key financial measures used by the Company for the purposes of assessing performance and highlighting operational trends as well as our ability to generate earnings sufficient to service out debt: (a) Excludes the amortization of debt issuance and debt discount expense of $19 million, $14 million, $12 million for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively, as it is included in Interest expense. (b) Return on invested capital is calculated by dividing after-tax operating income, calculated by applying the Company's effective tax rate to operating income, by the average of beginning and ending total debt and shareholders’ equity less cash and cash equivalents. (c) For the total debt to capitalization calculation, capitalization is defined as total debt plus total shareholders’ equity. (d) Book value per share is calculated by dividing shareholders’ equity by the sum of Class A and B shares outstanding. EBITDA is defined as net income before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. Net debt to EBITDA represents the ratio of our debt, net of cash and short-term investments, to EBITDA. EBITDA and net debt to EBITDA are presented as supplemental financial measurements in the evaluation of our business. We believe the presentation of these financial measures helps investors to assess our operating performance from period to period, including our ability to generate earnings sufficient to service our debt, enhances understanding of our financial performance and highlights operational trends. These measures are widely used by investors and rating agencies in the valuation, comparison, rating and investment recommendations of companies; however, the measurements of EBITDA and net debt to EBITDA may not be comparable to those of other companies, which limits their usefulness as comparative measures. EBITDA and net debt to EBITDA are not measures required by or calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and should not be considered as substitutes for net income or any other measure of financial performance reported in accordance with GAAP or as a measure of operating cash flow or liquidity. EBITDA is a useful tool for assessing, but is not a reliable indicator of, our ability to generate cash to service our debt obligations because certain of the items added to net income to determine EBITDA involve outlays of cash. As a result, actual cash available to service our debt obligations will be different from EBITDA. Investors should rely primarily on our GAAP results, and use non-GAAP financial measures only supplementally, in making investment decisions. RECENTLY ISSUED/ADOPTED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS Refer to the discussion under Part II, Item 8, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1: Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 2: Changes in Accounting Principles. 36 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. We have considered the impact of the global COVID-19 pandemic on our consolidated financial statements. In addition to the COVID-19 impacts we have already experienced, and continue to experience, there are likely to be future impacts, the ultimate extent of which is uncertain and largely subject to whether the severity worsens or duration lengthens. These impacts could include but may not be limited to risks and uncertainty related to worker availability, our ability to operate production facilities, demand-driven production facility closures, shifts in demand between sales channels and market volatility in our supply chain. Consequently, this may subject us to future risk of material goodwill, intangible and long-lived asset impairments, increased reserves for uncollectible accounts, and adjustments for inventory and market volatility for items subject to fair value measurements such as derivatives and investments. The following is a summary of certain accounting estimates we consider critical. These estimates require levels of subjectivity and judgment, which could result in actual results differing from our estimates. Contingent liabilities Description We are subject to lawsuits, investigations and other claims related to wage and hour/labor, antitrust, environmental, product, taxing authorities and other matters, and are required to assess the likelihood of any adverse judgments or outcomes to these matters, as well as potential ranges of probable losses. A determination of the amount of reserves and disclosures required, if any, for these contingencies is made after considerable analysis of each individual issue. We accrue for contingent liabilities when an assessment of the risk of loss is probable and can be reasonably estimated. We disclose contingent liabilities when the risk of loss is reasonably possible or probable. Judgments and Uncertainties Our contingent liabilities contain uncertainties because the eventual outcome will result from future events, and determination of current reserves requires estimates and judgments related to future changes in facts and circumstances, differing interpretations of the law and assessments of the amount of damages, and the effectiveness of strategies or other factors beyond our control. Effect if Actual Results Differ From Assumptions We have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to establish our contingent liabilities during the past three fiscal years. As set forth in Part II, Item 8, Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 21: Commitments and Contingencies, we recognized $626 million of charges in fiscal 2021 from legal accruals related to our broiler antitrust civil litigation, broiler chicken grower litigation, and wage rate litigation based on our assessment of the likelihood and amount of probable losses. We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood there will be a material change in the estimates or assumptions used to calculate our contingent liabilities. However, if actual results are not consistent with our estimates or assumptions, we may be exposed to gains or losses that could be material. Revenue recognition Description We recognize revenue for the sale of our product at the point in time when our performance obligation has been satisfied and control of the product has transferred to our customer, which generally occurs upon shipment or delivery to a customer based on terms of the sale. Revenue is measured by the transaction price, which is defined as the amount of consideration we expect to receive in exchange for providing goods to customers. The transaction price is adjusted for estimates of known or expected variable consideration, which includes consumer incentives, trade promotions, and allowances, such as coupons, discounts, rebates, volume-based incentives, cooperative advertising, and other programs. Variable consideration related to these programs is recorded as a reduction to revenue based on amounts we expect to pay. Judgments and Uncertainties The transaction price contains estimates of known or expected variable consideration. We base these estimates on current performance, historical utilization, and projected redemption rates of each program. We review and update these estimates regularly until the incentives or product returns are realized and the impact of any adjustments are recognized in the period the adjustments are identified. Effect if Actual Results Differ From Assumptions We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood there will be a material change in the estimates or assumptions used to recognize revenue. As noted above, estimates are made based on historical experience and other factors. Typically, programs that are offered have a short duration, and historically, the difference between actual experience compared to estimated redemptions and performance has not been significant to the quarterly or annual financial statements. However, if the level of redemption rates or performance were to vary significantly from estimates, we may be exposed to gains or losses that could be material. We have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to recognize revenue during the past three fiscal years. 37 Accrued self-insurance Description We are self-insured for certain losses related to health and welfare, workers’ compensation, auto liability and general liability claims. We use an independent third-party actuary to assist in determining our self-insurance liability. We and the actuary consider a number of factors when estimating our self-insurance liability, including claims experience, demographic factors, severity factors and other actuarial assumptions. We periodically review our estimates and assumptions with our third-party actuary to assist us in determining the adequacy of our self-insurance liability. Our policy is to maintain an accrual at the actuarial estimated median. Judgments and Uncertainties Our self-insurance liability contains uncertainties due to assumptions required and judgments used. Costs to settle our obligations, including legal and healthcare costs, could increase or decrease causing estimates of our self-insurance liability to change. Incident rates, including frequency and severity, could increase or decrease causing estimates in our self-insurance liability to change. Effect if Actual Results Differ From Assumptions We have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to establish our self-insurance liability during the past three fiscal years. We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood there will be a material change in the estimates or assumptions used to calculate our self-insurance liability. However, if actual results are not consistent with our estimates or assumptions, we may be exposed to gains or losses that could be material. A 10% change in the actuarial estimate at October 2, 2021, would not have a significant impact on our liability. Income taxes Description We estimate total income tax expense based on statutory tax rates and tax planning opportunities available to us in various jurisdictions in which we earn income. Income tax includes an estimate for withholding taxes on earnings of foreign subsidiaries expected to be remitted to the United States but does not include an estimate for taxes on earnings considered to be indefinitely invested in the foreign subsidiary. Deferred income taxes are recognized for the future tax effects of temporary differences between financial and income tax reporting using tax rates in effect for the years in which the differences are expected to reverse. Valuation allowances are recorded when it is likely a tax benefit will not be realized for a deferred tax asset. We record unrecognized tax benefit liabilities for known or anticipated tax issues based on our analysis of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. Judgments and Uncertainties Changes in projected future earnings could affect the recorded valuation allowances in the future. Our calculations related to income taxes contain uncertainties due to judgment used to calculate tax liabilities in the application of complex tax regulations across the tax jurisdictions where we operate. Our analysis of unrecognized tax benefits contains uncertainties based on judgment used to apply the more likely than not recognition and measurement thresholds. Effect if Actual Results Differ From Assumptions Changes in tax laws and rates could affect recorded deferred tax assets and liabilities in the future. Other than those potential impacts, we do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood there will be a material change in the tax related balances or valuation allowances. However, due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from the current estimate of the tax liabilities. To the extent we prevail in matters for which unrecognized tax benefit liabilities have been established, or are required to pay amounts in excess of our recorded unrecognized tax benefit liabilities, our effective tax rate in a given financial statement period could be materially affected. An unfavorable tax settlement would require use of our cash and generally result in an increase in our effective tax rate in the period of resolution. A favorable tax settlement would generally be recognized as a reduction in our effective tax rate in the period of resolution. Defined benefit pension plans Description We sponsor four defined benefit pension plans that provide retirement benefits to certain team members. We also participate in a multi-employer plan that provides defined benefits to certain team members covered by collective bargaining agreements. Such plans are usually administered by a board of trustees composed of the management of the participating companies and labor representatives. We use independent third-party actuaries to assist us in determining our pension obligations and net periodic benefit cost. We and the actuaries review assumptions that include estimates of the present value of the projected future pension payment to all plan participants, taking into consideration the likelihood of potential future events such as salary increases and demographic experience. We accumulate and amortize the effect of actuarial gains and losses over future periods. Net periodic benefit cost for the defined benefit pension plans was $11 million in fiscal 2021. The projected benefit obligation was $248 million at the end of fiscal 2021. Unrecognized actuarial loss was $40 million at the end of fiscal 2021. We currently expect net periodic benefit cost associated with our pension plans to be approximately $10 million in fiscal 2022. We expect to contribute approximately $14 million of cash to our pension plans in fiscal 2022. The exact amount of cash contributions made to pension plans in any year is dependent upon a number of factors, including minimum funding requirements. 38 Judgments and Uncertainties Our defined benefit pension plans contain uncertainties due to assumptions required and judgments used. The key assumptions used in developing the required estimates include such factors as discount rates, expected returns on plan assets, retirement rates, and mortality. These assumptions can have a material impact upon the funded status and the net periodic benefit cost. The expected liquidation of certain plans has been considered along with these assumptions. The discount rates were determined using a cash flow matching technique whereby the rates of a yield curve, developed from high-quality debt securities, were applied to the benefit obligations to determine the appropriate discount rate. In determining the long-term rate of return on plan assets, we first examined historical rates of return for the various asset classes within the plans. We then determined a long-term projected rate-of-return based on expected returns. Investment, management and other fees paid out of plan assets are factored into the determination of asset return assumptions. Retirement rates are based primarily on actual plan experience, while standard actuarial tables are used to estimate mortality. It is reasonably likely that changes in external factors will result in changes to the assumptions used to measure pension obligations and net periodic benefit cost in future periods. The risks of participating in multi-employer plans are different from single-employer plans. The net pension cost of the multi-employer plans is equal to the annual contribution determined in accordance with the provisions of negotiated labor contracts. Assets contributed to such plans are not segregated or otherwise restricted to provide benefits only to our team members. The future cost of these plans is dependent on a number of factors including the funded status of the plans and the ability of the other participating companies to meet ongoing funding obligations. Effect if Actual Results Differ From Assumptions We have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to establish our pension obligations and net periodic benefit cost during the past three fiscal years. We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood there will be a material change in the estimates or assumptions used to calculate our pension obligations and net periodic benefit cost. However, if actual results are not consistent with our estimates or assumptions, they are accumulated and amortized over future periods and, therefore generally affect the net periodic benefit cost in future periods. A 1% change in the discount rate at October 2, 2021, would not have a significant impact on the projected benefit obligation or net periodic benefit cost. A 1% change in the return on plan assets at October 2, 2021, would not have a significant impact on net periodic benefit cost. The sensitivities reflect the impact of changing one assumption at a time with the remaining assumptions held constant. Economic factors and conditions often affect multiple assumptions simultaneously and the effect of changes in assumptions are not necessarily linear. Impairment of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets Description Goodwill is evaluated for impairment by first performing a qualitative assessment to determine whether a quantitative goodwill test is necessary. If it is determined, based on qualitative factors, the fair value of the reporting unit may be more likely than not less than its carrying amount or if significant changes to macro-economic factors related to the reporting unit have occurred that could materially impact fair value, a quantitative goodwill impairment test would be required. The quantitative test compares the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. Additionally, we can elect to forgo the qualitative assessment and perform the quantitative test. Upon performing the quantitative test, if the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess, not to exceed the carrying amount of goodwill. For indefinite life intangible assets, a qualitative assessment can also be performed to determine whether the existence of events and circumstances indicates it is more likely than not an intangible asset is impaired. Similar to goodwill, we can also elect to forgo the qualitative test for indefinite life intangible assets and perform the quantitative test. Upon performing the quantitative test, if the carrying value of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. We have elected to make the first day of the fourth quarter the annual impairment assessment date for goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets. However, we could be required to evaluate the recoverability of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets outside of the required annual assessment if, among other things, we experience disruptions to the business, unexpected significant declines in operating results, divestiture of a significant component of the business or a sustained decline in market capitalization. Judgments and Uncertainties We estimate the fair value of our reporting units considering the use of various valuation techniques, with the primary technique being an income approach (discounted cash flow method) and another technique being a market approach (guideline public company method), which use significant unobservable inputs, or Level 3 inputs, as defined by the fair value hierarchy. We include assumptions about sales growth, operating margins, discount rates and valuation multiples which consider our budgets, business plans, economic projections and marketplace data, and are believed to reflect market participant views which would exist in an exit transaction. Assumptions are also made for varying perpetual growth rates for periods beyond the long-term business plan period. Generally, we utilize operating margin assumptions based on future expectations, operating margins historically realized in the reporting units’ industries and industry marketplace valuation multiples. 39 Our Chicken segment reporting units had goodwill at October 2, 2021 of $3.3 billion. We generally assumed operating margins in future years would normalize over time as we believe this is consistent with market participant views in an exit transaction. Had we assumed future operating margins consistent with those realized in the current fiscal year, we would have failed the quantitative step of the annual impairment test, which may have resulted in a material goodwill impairment loss. The current year results were not indicative of future market participant expectations in an exit transaction primarily due to a decline in hatch rate, a challenging labor environment and market disruptions, which impacts we expect to be mostly temporary in nature. To pass the first step of the annual impairment test in fiscal 2021, projected long-term operating margins, utilizing the discounted cash flow method, had to exceed approximately 3.1% on a weighted average basis, which has been achieved in eight of the previous ten years. An increase in the discount rates of approximately 130 basis points on a weighted average basis would have caused the carrying values of our material Chicken reporting units to exceed their discounted cash flows' fair values. Our International reporting units, which are presented in International/Other for segment presentation, had goodwill at October 2, 2021 of $0.4 billion, which originated from acquisitions in fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018. We generally assumed operating margins in future years would increase as we continue to integrate recent acquisitions and implement our international growth strategy, as we believe this is consistent with market participant views in an exit transaction. Had we assumed future operating margins consistent with those realized in the current fiscal year, reporting units with goodwill totaling $0.2 billion at October 2, 2021 would have failed the quantitative step of the annual impairment test, which may have resulted in a material goodwill impairment loss. We are still integrating the recent acquisitions and executing our international and global business strategy, in addition to managing through the temporary impacts of COVID-19. To pass the first step of the annual impairment test in fiscal 2021, projected long-term operating margins, utilizing the discounted cash flow method, had to exceed 2%. An increase in the discount rates of approximately 50 basis points would have caused the carrying values of the International reporting units to exceed their discounted cash flows' fair values. The fair value of our indefinite life intangible assets is calculated principally using multi-period excess earnings and relief-from-royalty valuation approaches, which uses significant unobservable inputs, or Level 3 inputs, as defined by the fair value hierarchy, and is believed to reflect market participant views which would exist in an exit transaction. Under these valuation approaches, we are required to make estimates and assumptions about sales growth, operating margins, royalty rates and discount rates based on budgets, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows and marketplace data. Our impairment analysis contains uncertainties due to uncontrollable events that could positively or negatively impact the anticipated future economic and operating conditions. Effect if Actual Results Differ From Assumptions We have not made material changes in the accounting methodology used to evaluate impairment of goodwill and intangible assets during the last three years. During fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019, all of our material reporting units and indefinite life intangible assets passed the impairment analysis. Some of the inherent estimates and assumptions used in determining fair value of the reporting units and indefinite life intangible assets are outside the control of management, including interest rates, cost of capital, tax rates, market EBITDA comparables and credit ratings. While we believe we have made reasonable estimates and assumptions to calculate the fair value of the reporting units and indefinite life intangibles, it is possible a material change could occur. If our actual results are not consistent with our estimates and assumptions used to calculate fair value, it could result in material impairments of our goodwill. All of our material reporting units’ estimated fair value exceeded their carrying value by more than 20% at the date of their most recent estimated fair value determination, other than the Chicken segment and International reporting units. Consequently, we do not currently consider any of our other material reporting units at significant risk of impairment. Our fiscal 2021, 2020, and 2019 indefinite life intangible assets impairment analyses did not result in an impairment charge. All indefinite life intangible assets’ estimated fair value exceeded their carrying value by more than 20% at the date of their most recent estimated fair value determination. Consequently, we do not currently consider any of our material indefinite life intangible assets at significant risk of impairment. Impairment of long-lived assets and definite life intangibles Description Long-lived assets and definite life intangibles are evaluated for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Examples include a significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which we use the asset, a change in its physical condition, or an unexpected change in financial performance. When evaluating long-lived assets and definite life intangibles for impairment, we compare the carrying value of the asset to the asset’s estimated undiscounted future cash flows. An impairment is indicated if the estimated future cash flows are less than the carrying value of the asset. For assets held for sale, we compare the carrying value of the disposal group to fair value. The impairment is the excess of the carrying value over the fair value of the asset. We recorded impairment charges related to long-lived assets and definite life intangibles of $60 million, $48 million and $94 million, in fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. 40 Judgments and Uncertainties Our impairment analysis contains uncertainties due to judgment in assumptions, including useful lives and intended use of assets, observable market valuations, forecasted sales growth, operating margins, royalty rates and discount rates based on budgets, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows and marketplace data that reflects the risk inherent in future cash flows to determine fair value. Effect if Actual Results Differ From Assumptions We have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to evaluate the impairment of long-lived assets or definite life intangibles during the last three fiscal years. We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood there will be a material change in the estimates or assumptions used to calculate impairments or useful lives of long-lived assets or definite life intangibles. However, if actual results are not consistent with our estimates and assumptions used to calculate estimated future cash flows, we may be exposed to impairment losses that could be material. We periodically conduct projects to strategically evaluate optimization of such items as network capacity, manufacturing efficiencies and business technology. If we have a significant change in strategies, outlook, or a manner in which we plan to use these assets, we may be exposed to future impairments. Business Combinations Description We account for acquired businesses using the acquisition method of accounting, which requires that once control of a business is obtained, 100% of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including amounts attributed to noncontrolling interests, be recorded at the date of acquisition at their respective fair values. Any excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. We use various models to determine the value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed such as net realizable value to value inventory, cost method and market approach to value property, relief-from-royalty and multi-period excess earnings to value intangibles and discounted cash flow to value goodwill. For significant acquisitions we may use independent third-party valuation specialists to assist us in determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Judgments and Uncertainties Significant judgment is often required in estimating the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, particularly intangible assets. We make estimates and assumptions about projected future cash flows including sales growth, operating margins, attrition rates, and discount rates based on historical results, business plans, expected synergies, perceived risk and marketplace data considering the perspective of marketplace participants. Determining the useful life of an intangible asset also requires judgment as different types of intangible assets will have different useful lives and certain assets may be considered to have indefinite useful lives. Effect if Actual Results Differ From Assumptions While management believes those expectations and assumptions are reasonable, they are inherently uncertain. Unanticipated market or macroeconomic events and circumstances may occur, which could affect the accuracy or validity of the estimates and assumptions, which could result in subsequent impairments. We had no material business combinations during fiscal 2021. ITEM 7A.